"Hyundai Motor Company" (Hyundai Motor Company) is a South Korean company specializing in the production of passenger cars. It is headquartered in Seoul.

On the wave of the post-war construction boom, Hyundai Construction founded Hyundai Motor Company in December 1967, thus contributing to the establishment of the transportation and engineering industries in South Korea. In 1968, Hyundai, originally known as a shipbuilding and design firm in various civil engineering fields, began manufacturing automobiles.

Initially, the company produced the Ford Cortina MK I ("Ford Cortina MK I") under license. In 1973, the design department, headed by George Turnbull, began to work. Using design input from Giorgio Giugiaro and his ItalDesign and production know-how from Japan and the UK, Hyundai managed to launch its first model. The result was the Hyundai-Pony 1.3 in 1985. This sub-compact was aimed at the middle class of society and was an immediate success in the Korean domestic market.

In the late 70s, the company began exporting cars for the first time and gained invaluable experience in overseas markets.

In the 1980s, cars, once considered a symbol of wealth in Korean society, were now nothing more than a means of transportation. By the mid-1980s, Hyundai had successfully established itself in the export markets of Canada and the United States. A number of models were adapted for export markets. The development of compact models did not stop. By the end of the 80s, the company had learned the lessons of playing in the US major leagues and prepared for the next decade and the ever-increasing competition. By 1990, total exports to the U.S. exceeded one million vehicles.

The first Hyundai Sonata was shown in the fall of 1988. In 1993 and in 1998 the Sonata underwent modernization. The car partially uses units produced under license from Mitsubishi.

In the 1990s, Hyundai's longstanding commitment to developing its own technology began to be realized. In 1991, the company unveiled its first in-house designed Alpha engine. Two years later, the Beta engine appeared.

For the first time cars Lantra (Elantra in Korea) appeared on the European market in the fall of 1990. The second generation Lantra/ElanIra with an elegant body saw the light in 1995. On the basis of a five-seat sedan a five-door five-seat station wagon Hyundai Lantra Wagon was produced. In April 2000, the Korean premiere of the third generation Elantra (type XD) took place, and in Europe the model was shown rather unexpectedly in June at the Turin Motor Show.

In January 1992, the world public for the first time got an idea of the future of Hyundai brand, having seen the first concept car HCD-I, which laid the tradition of creating original concept cars, including the HCD series.

The Hyundai HCD-II sports coupe model, introduced in 1992, was produced in a small batch. The car was aimed at a sector of the market interested in prestige cars, but considered similar European models too expensive. The company made great strides in the development of electric cars, hybrid cars and key industrial technologies such as emission reduction, improved safety systems and recycling of waste materials.

In September 1994, the company introduced a new generation of X-3 models called Accent (still called Ropu in some countries). The design concept of Hyundai Pony smoothly evolved from the angular forms of the first series of X-1 through a somewhat inviting design of the X-2 series to the fish-shaped image of the latest Accent X-3 series. In the fall of 1999, the European Accent II generation premiered.

At the Geneva Motor Show in March 1996, the Hyundai Coupe (Hyundai Tiburon in the U.S.) sports coupe was first shown. At the end of 1999, the Coupe model (in Korea and the US, the Tiburon) was seriously updated.

The first display of the Hyundai Atoz was in the fall of 1997. In the fall of 1999 there was an update of the model, which became known as Hyundai Prime.

In 1998, an updated SUV - Hyundai Galloper II appeared at the Geneva Motor Show. The basis for the first all-wheel drive car Hyundai Galloper (Skakun) was Mitsubishi Pajero of the first generation, which was produced from 1981 to 1991. The successor to the Galloper SUV was the Terracan.

In 1998, Hyundai Motor Company was going through hard times, caused by a sharp decline in sales in the domestic market. Nevertheless, a range of new models, starting with the EF Sonata and XG, brought Hyundai the highest praise from the international automotive press. It was a period of corporate and operational restructuring. The acquisition of Kia/Asia Motors and the merger of HPI and HMS helped Hyundai achieve strong economic performance to compete in the global marketplace.

The year 1999 was a time of active and fruitful work for Hyundai Motor. Following the success of the EF Sonata and XG, HMC offered the public four more recent developments: the Centennial, the new Accent, the updated Coupe and the Trajet. The Trajet was Hyundai's first step into the MPV segment. This model expanded Hyundai's product range. The Dynasty luxury model was modernized in 1999.

HYUNDAI Equus (Centennial in Europe) is the top-of-the-line model. Equus appeared simultaneously with the related Mitsubishi Proudia in 1999. It is intended for top government officials and presidents of corporations, so it is equipped accordingly.

The first show of the Santa Fe SUV took place in January 1999 at the Detroit Auto Show.

In 2000. XG/Grandeur XG has not changed, it is a front-wheel-drive luxury sedan unified on the chassis with the Sonata. The model fully complies with the most stringent European and American safety requirements, is very well equipped and relatively inexpensive.

In addition, Hyundai Motor signed an official partnership agreement and became the exclusive automotive sponsor of the 2002 FIFA World Cup in Korea and Japan. The sponsorship package covers all events held by FIFA, in particular the Women's World Cup, the Confederations Cup, and the FIFA World Cup for Children and Youth teams. Hyundai Motor Company ended 1999 with an extremely successful year, with exports breaking all previous records and totaling nearly 701,000 vehicles, and domestic sales almost reaching pre-crisis levels. The recovery of the Korean economy and the revival of demand for passenger cars allowed Hyundai Motor to strengthen its position in the domestic market and to compete with other brands on a global scale.

The new millennium has broadened the horizons of Hyundai Motor Company, which is now focusing on strengthening its global presence. In July 2001, one of Hyundai's largest overseas plants in Chennai. India, began production of the new Sonata, and the NMS plant in Turkey began production of H-1 vans.

Hyundai Motor Company and DaimlerChrysler AG established a joint venture to produce commercial vehicles to be called Daimler Hyundai Truck Corporation. In June 2001, the two companies announced plans to jointly produce a diesel engine for Mercedes-Benz 900-series commercial vehicles at Hyundai's Jeonju plant beginning in 2004. This facility is planned to produce up to 100,000 engines annually for Mercedes-Benz 900-series commercial vehicles.

The South Korean firm is currently optimistic about its prospects. The Accent, Lantra, Lantra Combi, Coupe and Sonata models are selling well in Europe, as well as the new H1 Starex minibus and MX small car, which debuted at the Frankfurt International Motor Show.