"Dodge" (Dodge Division), a division of the American Chrysler Corporation, specializing in the production of passenger cars, as well as off-road vehicles. It is headquartered in Highland Park (a suburb of Detroit).
Americans John and Horace Dodge founded their own company in 1914, where they were among the first to start production of cars with all-metal bodies. "The Dodge Brothers Company" in 1914 began production of its own automobile. The small firm, previously engaged in the production of components for the plants of Ford and "Olds Motor", absorbed all the technological innovations of the time, including Ford's technology of standardization and flow assembly (Henry Ford even made legal claims to the brothers, however without success).

The first Dodge Brothers car, which was later jokingly nicknamed "Old Lady Betsy", left the plant on November 14, 1914 - and after it by the end of the year Dodgy produced 249 more exactly the same cars. Each of them on the upper radiator tank flaunted the company's trademark emblem - the globe, placed in the center of the Star of David: the brothers remembered their roots.

By 1920 the company was the second largest car manufacturer after Ford), but in the same 1920 both brothers died, and the new head of the company was Fred J. Haynes. The state of the Dodge brothers was solid - 20 million-plus each. In addition, the heirs of the brothers (and except for the widows they had no one left), received 50% of the authorized capital. But both widows did not possess entrepreneurial talents, and the company went down. Already in 1928 Dodge Brothers was bought by Walter Chrysler, who at that time was building up his own auto empire, buying up all car plants indiscriminately. Durable cars "Dodge" with honor withstood the tests of the First World War, when they were used as staff and ambulance vehicles.

In 1928 the Dodge concern became a part of the Chrysler Corporation and the Dodge automobile became a trademark of Chrysler. Today, along with passenger cars, Dodge brand also produces SUVs, minivans and pickup trucks. The logo of "Dodge" was regularly changed, but most often (as well as at present) in the emblem appeared ... ram's head. As some experts believe, the "fault" is one of Dodge models, the curved exhaust manifold of which reminded twisted horns of a mountain ram...

Dodge plant in Argentina was sold in 1980 to Volkswagen. There were a number of subsidiaries and joint ventures - with Dodge's shareholding - that produced Dodge trucks in the UK, India, Australia and Turkey. However, as part of the consolidation course conducted by Chrysler, these firms left the sphere of influence of this American corporation.

As part of the Chrysler corporation, Dodge stands out for its sporty and off-road image. Car program of Dodge completely copies those of Chrysler and Plymouth, but off-roaders of the firm are produced only under one brand. Maybe due to this fact, as well as the undoubted external attractiveness of Dakota, Durango and Ram models, the name Dodge is associated with off-roaders and, of course, the sports supercar (roadster) Viper, which is produced as a sports coupe.

The Dodge Caravan, a front-wheel drive minivan with a transversely mounted engine, appeared in Chrysler's model program in 1984 and revolutionized the automotive market. The concept was unique and at the same time so practical that it won a large number of fans in a short time. In Europe, the car is delivered under the name Chrysler Voyager. Along with the Jeep Grand Cherokee, the model is the best-selling "American" on the European continent. Dodge Caravan corresponds to similar models of Chrysler Town & Country and Plymouth Voyager.

The development of "Dodge Viper" (or "Chrysler Viper" in Europe - by the name of the parent company for "Dodge") spiritual successor to the Cobra, was authorized by the president of the corporation "Chrysler" Bob Lutz (Bob Lutz) in 1989. A prototype of the new model was the star attraction at the 1989 Detroit International Auto Show. The final version of the "Viper RT10" model was ready in 1991. By releasing the Viper GTS sports model, the Chrysler concern demonstrated its intention to actively participate in motorsports. At the Detroit Auto Show in 2000, a Viper GTS/R prototype with a 500-horsepower V10 engine was shown, developing a top speed of about 320 km/h.

Concern Chrysler, having released Dodge Intrepid cars in January 1992, made many people change their attitude to American cars. Restyling five years later made it different from its Concord counterpart in the Chrysler lineup. Modern models are complemented by a sporty configuration of Intrepid FVT. In the Dodge lineup, however, the Intrepid is the only high-end vehicle.
The Dodge Neon successor to the Shadow, a front-wheel-drive Golf-class sedan, was first introduced in Frankfurt am Main in 1993. A parallel model to the Plymouth Neon brand. In Europe under the Chrysler brand. The cheapest car in the production program of the company, fast and comfortable (under the slogan "for the young"). In January 1999 in Detroit - new version with changed design of the front end and modified suspension.

The Dodge Avenger two-seat front-wheel drive coupe was first introduced in the winter of 1994, debuted at the same time as the Chrysler Sebring and is its design counterpart.

Dodge Stratus, a front-wheel-drive sedan with a transversely mounted engine (successor to the Spirit model). First presented as a prototype in Detroit and Los Angeles in January 1994. The whole appearance of the car strikes with integrity and completeness, and not in vain this car, only under the Chrysler brand, quite successfully sold in Europe. The premiere of the new Stratus 2001 model year was held at the Chicago Auto Show in winter 2000. With the appearance of the novelty it was decided to abandon the name Avenger.

High-powered and large-sized multi-purpose off-road vehicle (SUV) Dodge Durango with disconnected four-wheel drive (successor of Ramcharger model) was first presented in Detroit in January 1997. This comfortable jeep with a powerful V-shaped eight-cylinder engine can be a serious competition to the popular "Grand Cherokee".

The Dakota pickup trucks, produced by the cargo department, are very successful on the market, and won the title of "Sport Truck of the Year" in 1996. Since 1997, the second generation Dodge Dakota has been released. Built on a rigid spar frame, the vehicle competes with the grandee of the genre Ford F-150. Aggressive powerful body with expressive bumpers on doors and side panels clearly speaks about the character of the car.

Only in the U.S. and Canada by the end of 1999, 1561.4 thousand of different Dodge models were produced. About 1080 thousand units of them were passenger models Neon, Stratus, Avenger, Intrepid, Caravan, Durango and Viper.

Significant renewal of Dodge production program in 2001. Appearance of new models Stratus and Stratus Coupe (instead of Avenger), minivans Caravan/Grand Caravan, and also several sporty modifications under the index R/T. As well as an update of the Durango SUV.

The new generation Dodge Ram full-size pickup truck debuted at the Chicago Auto Show. The previous-generation Ram appeared in 1993 and was a real revelation in the styling and shaping of full-size pickups. It still holds the unofficial title of the most attractive and stylish light truck in the United States. The Ford and Chevrolet pickups, which have been modernized several times since then, have never been able to surpass Dodge in beauty and conciseness of design.