"FIAT (FIAT, Fabrica Italiana Automobili Torino), the largest Italian automobile corporation. It produces passenger cars, sports cars, trucks, various industrial and agricultural machinery. The corporation also owns enterprises producing aerospace products. The headquarters is located in Turin.
The company was founded in 1899 by a group of investors, including Giovanni Agnelli (Giovanni Agnelli), and began assembling cars under license from Renault with De Dion engines. In the organization of production Agnelli from the very beginning brought his socialist ideals about the possibility of cooperation between entrepreneurs and workers. In 1903 Italy abolished tariffs on imported steel, which led to a rapid expansion of production: the original passenger cabs, trucks, and buses appeared, and the production of engines for airplanes and ships began.

Fiat cars, designed for elite buyers, achieved permanent popularity not only in the Italian, but also in the world market. At the same time, the Fiat brand also gained recognition in automobile racing, finishing at the head of such brands as Lancia, Storero, Miller and Nazzaro.

For the first time in Europe, the FIAT automobile company loudly announced itself as an original manufacturer with the S61 model with a 10.5-liter engine, winning the 1911 Grand Prix race in Franzia.

Soon Giovanni Agnelli concluded that it was necessary to move forward from artisanal production to industrial production and in 1912 he started serial production of cars under the F.I.A.T. brand. He was also one of the first to realize that each car manufacturer needed its own style, which should be developed by an artist-stylist.

The pioneer of this ideology was the Tipo Zero model of 1912. The design of the car was not distinguished by originality and was similar to models of other companies. And to give the "face" of the car individuality, Agnelli obliged his craftsmen to develop six different radiator covers. F.I.A.T. and Alfa Romeo were the first to order bodies for their production cars from such masters as Locati & Toretta, and then from Zagato & Touring.

From the very beginning, Fiat established production and production abroad. An example of this is the Poughkeepsie plant in the United States, which was opened in 1909.

This approach fully reflected the views of Giovanni Agnelli, who was already planning the development of methods to increase control over the production system. The result was the Lingotto project, in those days the largest automobile complex in Europe, which began production in 1922.

This project was based on a specific strategy: to make a car not for the elite and accessible only to a few, but a mass-produced car. This was accomplished thanks to completely new principles of industrial organization of production, based on the assembly line of conveyor type.

World War I brought FIAT to the forefront of Italian automobile production. By the early 1920s FIAT had already become the largest company in Italy. The skillful administrator of the company Vittorio Valletta contributed to this. But in 1919-1920 years FIAT and personally Agnelli had to endure a number of powerful strikes, accompanied by seizures of enterprises and offices. The leaders of the rebellious workers were communists Antonio Gramsci and Palmiro Togliatti. Production was virtually destroyed. After Mussolini came to power Agnelli returned to management. In 1927 the IFI holding company was created to manage FIAT. The leading role in the holding is played to this day by the Agnelli family.

In 1932, the Balilla made its debut, with production soon reaching 113,000 units.

In 1936 the Topolino (Topolino or FIAT-500), a two-seater car with a 569 cm3 engine, the smallest car in the world, was launched in mass production. First, the shape and volume of the body were invented, and only after that the engineer Dante Giacosa (Dante Giacosa) began to think over the order of arrangement of all units and assemblies of the chassis with rear driving wheels under it, having designed them in the form of a short and light frame with holes in the spars to reduce weight. The necessary rigidity was acquired only after the sloping body was attached to the frame. This famous car sold 519,000 units between 1936 and 1955. The various models of this car were intended to increase interest in Italy and thus cause a general increase in the number of cars.

During World War II, FIAT's factories were considerably destroyed, and after the liberation of Italy, they were nationalized. However, Vittorio Valetta continued to actually run the company.

After the war, when the production boom began, a lot of new models began to roll off the assembly line: two-door sedan Fiat 500, station wagons Fiat 1100 B and 1500 D, and a year later Fiat 500 C, 1100 E and 1500 E.

The 50s began with the launch of the Fiat 1400, a model with a load-bearing body that, from 1953 onwards, was the first Italian car to be offered also in a diesel version. In the same year, Mirafiori produced the 1100/103 sedan and the versatile 103 TV. Half a decade later, the small Seicentos and Cinquecentos would change the face of Italy, making the automobile accessible to everyone. Produced in the millions, these cars introduced Italians to the rest of the world and became a symbol of the economic miracle embodied in the industrial transformation of the country.

In the early 60's the company was privatized again. The grandsons of G. Agnelli Sr., Umberto and Giovanni Jr. became the heads of the concern, bringing new approaches to the organization of production. Taking into account the far-sighted intuition of the management staff, the company produced a small car Fiat 850, produced in the amount of 3 million units. In 1966, Giovanni Agnelli, grandson of the founder, became Chairman of the company and initiated a number of projects to strengthen the company's position on the world market.

It was in 1966 that Fiat signed an agreement with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to build the Volga Automobile Plant VAZ in Stavropol-on-the-Volga, ironically renamed by the Communist authorities in honor of Togliatti, which had almost ruined FIAT in the 20s. VAZ's production capacity was 2,000 cars 124 per day. FIAT firmly entered our lives with the construction of the Volga Automobile Plant, which gave the country many millions of passenger cars, a huge number of jobs at the parent plant and related plants. VAZ produces the Fiat model until now. After all, "2105" and "2106" are almost twins of the 124th "Fiat" in technical content. So we can safely talk about this concern as the "chief" of the Soviet passenger car industry. It is impossible to imagine today's highways and city streets without Zhiguli. Not only that, when "Russian Fiats" were sold abroad (in export version), due to their lower price they successfully competed with "Italians". And even now the middle class of society is aimed at VAZ cars, and many people prefer "classics", i.e. FIAT-124 in the past.

FIAT-124 was recognized as the car of the year as early as 1967 - 30 years ago. A successful model!

In 1969, the Lancia company joined FIAT. At the same time, in parallel with the introduction of various models, from the Dino to the 128, 130, 127 and 126 series, Fiat built car production plants in Southern Italy, Poland and Brazil, spreading Italian automotive know-how throughout the world, including the experience gained from the acquisition of famous brands such as Autobianchi and Lancia.

During the period encompassing the oil crisis of the 1970s, emphasis was placed on improving finished products and production processes, helping to achieve a higher level of automation and production with more efficient automobile manufacturing methods.

The production of the Ritmo, which began in 1978 thanks to Robogate, a revolutionary automation system, took the company to a new level of development. The turning point in the history of Fiat automobile concern was 1983, when the famous Uno, a car that offered a wide range of innovations: in electronics, in the use of alternative materials, engine design, etc., was released for the first time.

In 1980 in Geneva was presented a compact car FIAT Panda. For 20 years of production FIAT company offered 60 variants of the Panda model. The total number of produced cars is 4 million units. Despite its rather unassuming appearance, the Panda was developed in the ItalDesign atelier under the guidance of maestro D. Giugiaro. Today this model is one of the cheapest in Western Europe.

FIAT Uno made its debut in March 1983 in Geneva. It was the "number one" model lineup, the Uno remained the most popular in the Apennine Peninsula for more than a decade. FIAT Uno was removed from the assembly line in Italy in May 1995 and transferred for production to the Polish plant FlAT-Polsca (former FSM) in Bielsko-Biala, Turkish division TOFAS-FIAT, as well as the Egyptian branch of El Nasr, where these models are produced to this day. On the Italian assembly line FIAT Uno was replaced by the successor - FIAT Punto.

The large front-wheel drive Fiat Croma, presented by the main Italian automaker in December 1985, a hatchback with a stepped rear door, a convenient and spacious trunk, the so-called "two-spool volume", this model was designed on a single, as it was then called, "all-European" platform "TIPO 4", on which were still based Lancia Thema, SAAB 9000 and Alfa Romeo 164. The Croma lasted on the assembly line until 1996, when demand for it dropped completely, and FIAT considered it unnecessary to continue its presence in this class.

In 1986, the Fiat Group acquired Alfa Romeo and its divisions, thus strengthening its position on the world market. The company's policy allowed to soon introduce a new model Alfa 164 on the market, which resonated in the hearts of ardent fans of the legendary brand. Alfa 164 was followed by a series of models, including Alfa 156, which was launched in 1997 and became the Car of the Year.

Five-door hatchback Tipo debuted in January 1988, four-door streamlined three-volume six-window sedan Tempra - in February 1990, five-door station wagon Tempra (also it was called FIAT Tempra) and van RIT Marengo - in May 1990. These models are made on the same platform, but their design is slightly different. On the same technological platform, the concern FIAT produced similar in size, but more expensive and prestigious models of segments C and D - Lancia Delta and Alfa Romeo 33, and Lancia Dedra with Alfa 155.

The Tipo looks like a scaled-up previous best-seller of the market - FIAT Uno, and yet the prestigious title of "Car of the Year 1989" went to it. However, the Tipo was not widely recognized in the market. In October 1995, the Tipo and Tempra model range was replaced in Italy by Bravo/Brava and Magea model families.

Punto/Sporting front-wheel drive car of especially small class (3- and 5-door hatchback). The most popular in the class, 17 basic models (including convertible). GT - the most powerful modification. The debut was in the fall of 1993. The new generation of this model - July 1999.

Fiat Coupe sports coupe based on Fiat Bravo is one of the cheapest models of this type. Coupe Turbo is the most powerful modification with high dynamic characteristics and max. speed of 250 km/h, a competitor of compressor Mercedes-Benz CLK and Porsche Boxter. The model was first presented in November 1993. In summer 2000 at the Turin Motor Show a new Coupe 2.0 20V Turbo Plus with 220 hp engine and 6-speed gearbox was shown.

FIAT Ulysse, a minivan with transverse engine layout and front-wheel drive. Produced jointly by Peugeot/Citroen and Fiat/Lancia. The premiere of an extensive family of 7-8-seat single-volume station wagons with increased capacity within the framework of the joint project U60 of FIAT and PSA concern took place in January 1994. Production of all models, based on a common platform, is carried out at the new plant NordSEVEL in northern France. At the beginning of 1996, the cargo and cargo-passenger family (U64) of FIAT Scudo/Citroen Jumpy/Peugeot Expert mini-vans were presented on the market, unified by chassis and partially by bodies with mini-vans of U60 family. The U64 platform replaced the short-wheelbase model FIAT Talento.

For the first time Fiat Barchetta was presented in spring 1995 at the Geneva Motor Show and was recognized as the most beautiful convertible saloon. It is a front-wheel drive sporty convertible - spider with open or rigid removable top; it is made on the basis of Fiat Punto, a joint development of Fiat and design atelier Pininfarina.

In summer 2000 at the Turin Motor Show the "luxury" Barchetta Riviera was shown.

Fiat Bravo/Brava, C-class cars with transverse engine layout and front-wheel drive. The last generation of Golf-class hatchbacks (segment C, according to the European classification) was presented by FIAT concern in September 1995. And very successfully - the two-unit Bravo/Brava won the honorable title "Car of the Year 1996".

Fiat Marea is a model of European class D, created on the Brava platform, but longer and more spacious than the latter. "Luxury" version HLX has a driver's seat with electrically adjustable, two side airbags and hi-fi stereo equipment with six speakers. The model was first presented in July 1996. In 1998 an "Arctic" version of Fiat Marea was developed especially for Russia.

FIAT Palio (Siena - Argentine modification of Fiat Palio) is a compact car of small class. The model was first presented in 1996. Initially the car was produced in Brazil, since 1997 - in Argentina and Poland. In 1997, the production of the model with a station wagon body began. In 1998, Fiat Palio station wagon was delivered to the European market. In 2000, the Weekend station wagon was joined by 3- and 5-door hatchbacks Palio.

In March-April 1998 in Turin was presented FIAT Seicento, a car of especially small class. Like Panda, this car belongs to the European size class A. It is produced in Poland, sold on the European market. Basic versions are produced: Young, S, SX, Citymatic, Suite, Sporting, as well as an electric car Seicento Elettra.

The Multipla model was first presented in the fall of 1998. It is a mid-size minivan - the first vehicle of its kind in its class. A revived name for the multi-passenger compact car of the 50s. In the summer of 2000, a new Special series with a higher level of equipment appeared.
In October 2000, the company launched the Doblo cargo-passenger model at the Paris Motor Show. This car is offered in both passenger and cargo versions (Doblo Cargo).

In Italy Stilo is sold since October 6, 2002. The three-door hatchback, which replaces the Bravo model, is addressed to fans of active driving. In turn, the five-door car (it replaces the Fiat Brava) is a "family" variant. Fiat Stilo will be produced for six to seven years. The total planned production volume is 2.5 million cars.

The concern gradually acquired bankrupt companies and today FERRARI, LANCIA, and ALFA ROMEO are gathered under the "roof" of FIAT. It also owns several tractor plants.