"Chevrolet" (Chevrolet Motor Division), the leading division of General Motors, specializing in passenger cars, pickup trucks and SUVs. It is headquartered in Warren, a northern suburb of Detroit, Michigan.
Chevrolet Motor Car Company was formed in 1911 by General Motors founder William Durant. No longer managing General Motors, he energetically created new companies. Being mainly a businessman, not an engineer, before leaving General Motors, Durant took with him a promising and interesting development of the automobile, on the improvement of which he invited to work popular racer Louis Chevrolet, who gave the new company his famous sounding name.

The first model, quite successful Classic Six ("Classic Six") - a spacious five-seat sedan with a 6-cylinder engine with a capacity of 30 horsepower, with electric lighting, four doors, folding top, windshield, and in addition to all this attached a personal set of work tools, was presented in 1912. The Little Four with a four-cylinder engine was also introduced. But the price of the firstborn - 2500 dollars - was exorbitant for the buyer, and therefore it was not a success. The then popular Ford-T was five times cheaper.

William Durant realized that the key to success lies not in the luxury of the car, but in its simplicity and cheapness. He moved away from the production of luxury models and began production of inexpensive 4-cylinder cars - open passenger car Baby Grand ("Baby Grand") and sports Royal Mail ("Royal Mail"). It was on these models in 1914 that the famous "Chevrolet" logo - bow tie - first appeared.

In 1916 on their basis was created Chevrolet-490 (that was its original price), which brought the firm a loud fame. These cheap but reliable cars became as popular as Fords. They were powered by 4-cylinder engines with a volume of 2.8 liters. The car was so successful that it was produced until 1922, and gave birth to the no less famous "Superior" model, which existed until 1927. The Chevrolet-490 had a simple 3-speed transmission, and both rigid axles were suspended on leaf springs. Like the Fords, everything was simplified to the extreme, but these cars had electric headlights and a starter, which was a rarity even for expensive cars. It was with the 490th model that Chevrolet began to specialize in the cheapest and simplest cars, which brought it worldwide fame.

In 1917, the company introduced its own engine, the V-8, but at that time it did not find sufficient demand. The dynamic, diverse and well-selling Chevrolet models brought financial success to Durant, who was able to regain control of General Motors and in 1918 joined the corporation to the Chevrolet Company, whose products for many years became the jewelry of the corporation's production range.

Engineers and designers of "Chevrolet" did a lot for the development of the world automobile industry. In this department in 1923 the first automobile equipped with air-cooled engine was produced.

In 1928 the model "International Six", also known under the index "AB", appeared. In 1929, a single-row 6-cylinder engine was developed, which was produced until 1984.

The "Master" model was released in 1933, and in 1934 Chevrolet was the first to equip its cars with independent suspension of front wheels, which greatly facilitated driving and reduced tire wear. In the years of the "Great Depression" the company finally overtook Ford in sales.

In 1935 the model "Suburban Carryall" (Suburban Carryall, literally "suburban carriage") marked the beginning of a new class - multi-passenger multi-purpose cars.

In 1949, new models "Special" and "De Luxe" were introduced.

Since 1950, the company began to use automatic transmissions on its models.

In 1953 "Chevrolet" produces the first car of the line Corvette ("Corvette") with a body made of fiberglass, which is considered as the first attempt to create a purely American sports car. Equipped with a modernized Chevrolet engine with a displacement of 3.8 liters and automatic transmission, the Corvette, however, did not find demand, but the model was saved by equipping it with a new V-8 engine and modernization of the frame in 1955. In addition, the former automatic transmission was replaced by a manual.

Since 1956, the Corvette became a true sports car, whose appearance matched its spiritedness and whose power reached 290 hp. By 1961, the fuel-injected Corvette 283 reached a power of 315 hp and accelerated from a standstill to 100 km/h in 5.5 seconds.

From 1963, when the Corvette model was introduced at car shows, it became the subject of universal admiration, in a way epitomizing the American style in automobile construction in general. The body of the 1963 Corvette Sting Ray, designed by the company's design department headed by William (Bill) Mitchell, gave the impression of ultra-modern superpower while keeping the base short and light. This model was equipped with a new frame with independent rear wheel suspension and was characterized by unique performance. There seemed to be no limit to the power of Chevrolet cars - by 1966, the seven-liter 427 engine had already reached 560 hp.

Ill-conceived changes in the design of the 1968 model due to the overload of not too justified innovations led to a drop in demand, which was restored in the future, not returning, unfortunately, almost religious adoration of earlier models.

Since 1984, the Corvette was produced in coupe and convertible versions with V-8-cylinder engines.

In 1958, new models "Biscayne", "Bel Air" and "Impala" were released.

By 1960, the company prepared for production compact models "Corvair".

In 1961, the first Chevi 11 model was shown.

In 1963, the production of the Chevelle model began

In 1965, the Malibu model was launched.

In 1966, the release of the sports model "Camaro".

The appearance of the "Monte Carlo" model occurs in 1969.

In 1970, the production of smaller cars began. The appearance of the "Vega" model.

In 1974, the production of the "Monza" model began.

In 1979, the company began production of front-wheel drive cars with transversely arranged power units. The first in this series was the "Sitation" model.

The Cavallier model was presented in 1981.

Chevrolet USA Metro, first introduced in 1983 under the name GEO, since 1998 sold under the name Chevrolet, in February 1999 a new modification was introduced.

Chevrolet USA Prizm, a mid-size sedan based on the Toyota Corolla. It is produced in California by a joint venture with Japanese-American company Nummi. Since 1998 the model is sold under this name, before under the name GEO.

Chevrolet USA Alero is a mid-size (by European classification) sedan with transversely mounted engine. It was first introduced in Europe in February 1999.

Currently, all-wheel drive station wagons Blazer ("Blazer") and ostromodny Venture ("Venture") with increased capacity are popular all over the world. "Blazers", extremely popular in our country, are assembled in Russia, at the plant in Elabuga. For the first time, in its modern form, the Blazer was presented in Sao Paulo in 1995. In the same year it was awarded the title "SUV of the year" by the authoritative magazine "Motor Trend".

In the mid-size class, the Lumina (first shown in 1987) is the leader, for which the company has found the optimal ratio of power to sales price.

In the United States, the Suburban, nicknamed the "Texas Limousine", is successfully selling in the luxury class, representing Chevrolet in the high-end car sector.

The TAHOE SUV, introduced in 2000, has uniquely high torque in its class. It was first introduced in 1992.

Chevrolet USA Super Sport Roadster Concept, a concept pickup truck, first unveiled to the public in January 2000 at the Detroit Auto Show.