"Daewoo" (Daewoo Motor Co., Ltd.), a South Korean firm specializing in the production of automobiles. It is headquartered in Seoul.
In 1972, the Korean authorities legislated the right to engage in automobile production for four companies - Kia, Hyundai Motor, Asia Motors and Shinjin. Then there was a merger of Kia and Asia Motors. And the company Shinjin became a joint venture between Daewoo and General Motors, and a few years later - the company Daewoo Motor.

Daewoo, a rather young dynamic company, cooperated with General Motors until 1993. In 1995 Daewoo appeared on the German market with the Nexia small class and Espero medium class models.

Daewoo Nexia is the last generation of the notorious Opel Kadett E, which under license began to produce in 1986 in Korea. The car was exported to the USA and Canada under the name of Pontiac Le Mans, in the local market it became known as Daewoo Racer. Russians first got acquainted with it in 1993. After another modernization in March 1995, the model was renamed Nexia (Cielo for Korea). And soon the assembly was transferred to Daewoo branches in different countries: "UzDaewoo" - in Uzbekistan, "Krasny Aksai" - in Russia and Rodae - in Romania.

Front-wheel drive hatchback Tico of "mini" class for urban travel on the basis of Suzuki Alto has been produced in South Korea since 1988, since 1996 - in Uzbekistan.

Until 1993 the company cooperated with General Motors (General Motors). By the beginning of 1996 Daewoo has built three large technical centers: in Worthing (Great Britain), near Munich (Germany) and in Puglian (Korea). The company's chief technical project manager is Ulrich Betz (formerly a high-ranking BMW manager).

Since 1993, the Prince sedan and its more comfortable variant Brougham based on the discontinued Opel Senator are produced.

Espero sedan was designed by Bertone company on the basis of Opel-Ascona model units. It was first presented in 1993.

At the end of 1997 the company presented three latest models - Lanos, Nubira and Leganza - at international auto shows.

The Lanos car was designed and put into production in 30 months and cost the company $420 million dollars. It is Daewoo's first in-house design. In Russia, the Lanos version is the Assol. Lanos should replace the previously produced Nexia model, borrowing suspension and steering from it.

Daewoo Nubira is the company's own development (department in England), design - I.D.E.A. Work on the Nubira model (translated from Korean as "to travel around the world") began in 1993 and lasted 32 months. The design was developed in Worthing and the first mock-up, further modified, was unveiled in late 1994. It is a golf-class car with transverse engine layout and front-wheel drive, replacing the Espero. In Russia, the version is called "Orion".

The Leganza model is the company's attempt to produce business class models. It is the most comfortable and equipped car of the company. The design of this model is based on the body of Opel Senator, finalized by Italian specialists of Italdesign. Russian analog of the Korean model "Condor".

Daewoo Matiz is a model of mini-car with transverse engine and front-wheel drive. The model was first presented in 1998 in Geneva. An updated version of the Daewoo Matiz was presented at the Paris Motor Show in October 2000.

After the Asian financial crisis of 1998 Daewoo company faced huge difficulties. Nevertheless, the government of South Korea refused the idea to nationalize the company. The largest corporations of the world fought for the right to acquire it.

Since September 2002, South Korean Daewoo officially came under the jurisdiction of General Motors, changing its name to GM Daewoo Auto & Technology Co. Today, the Daewoo brand is familiar to domestic consumers mainly due to the cars produced in Uzbekistan at the UzDeu plant, which remained outside the newly created company.