"Renault" (Renault, Regie nationale des usines Renault), French state-owned automobile company, the largest in the country. It produces cars, trucks, and sports cars. It is headquartered in Boulogne-Billancourt (a small town near Paris).
The history of the company began with the first car assembled by Louis Renault (Louis Renault) in 1898, a light voiturette (from French voiturette - wagon, cart), with a power of only 0.75 hp. The next car, known as the "Model A" with a 1.75 hp De Dion engine on a tubular frame was very successful, and Louis, together with his older brothers, organized the company "Renault Freres" (Renault Freres), already in 1899 made and sold 15 "Model A". For his car Louis designed a gearbox in which the torque to the rear wheels was transmitted not by chains, but by a shaft with cardan joints. This scheme of the main transmission remained unchanged to the present day in rear-wheel drive cars. The brothers were fond of automobile racing and racing and sports models occupied an important place in their early business.

From 1900 the company switched to the production of large and powerful cars. These are models AG1 with elegant and comfortable various bodies "capuchin", "double-faeton", "lando", rare for that time closed limousines.

In 1906 the company presented its first bus at the automobile Salon in Berlin. One of the first, in 1905, the "Renault Brothers" produced cab cars with the body of "Landolais". These cars, nicknamed "Brownings" because of their black color and their shape, became famous during the First World War, when 600 Parisian taxi-renaults were mobilized in the shortest possible time to transport 5 thousand soldiers to the Marne River. The cabs were nicknamed "Marne" after the famous battle. There is even a monument to this car. For the needs of the French army the company supplied other equipment, ships, aircraft engines (the first airplane engine was assembled in 1908). Louis Renault even designed quite successful for that time tanks.

"Renault Brothers" in the pre-war years actively cooperated with Russia. For the Emperor was made car limousine-landolais on the chassis of Renault, for the heir to the throne was purchased "Renault-Bebe", a lightweight car, extremely easy to manage and operate. Confiscated from the "exploiters" "Renault", as is known, drove Lenin. Renault taxicabs were purchased for the new socialist Moscow, Renault equipment and technologies became the basis of the KIM plant, known to us as AZLK.

In the 1930s, the original buses with an open platform appeared. Brilliant sporting results continuously accompany the firm. Louis Renault himself after the death of his brother no longer sat behind the wheel, but the company's cars invariably decorate numerous races with their presence.

Let's note a remarkable achievement of 1923 - the first crossing of the Sahara desert six-wheeled prototype. The Juve 4 model with independent front-wheel drive, which appeared in 1935, was a new word in design not appreciated in its time.

The Second World War caused significant damage to the company. The factories in Bijancourt were destroyed by Allied bombing, Louis Renault himself was accused of collaborating with the Nazi occupiers and died, disgraced, in prison.

In 1945 the company was nationalized and became a state-owned enterprise, which received its modern name.

In 1946 the mass model 4CV appeared, together with the famous Citroen 2CV, which "put the French on wheels".

By 1949 the reconstruction of the factories was completed and by 1954 500 thousand 4CVs were produced.

In 1958, a new Renault engine plant is put into operation in Cléon (Normandy). Renault 4 with front-wheel drive becomes a popular "small people's car" (production of this model amounted to more than 8 million units). The Renault 16, front-wheel drive, with one and a half liter engine, in 1965 pioneered the introduction of the hatchback body as we see it today. This car, with its versatile and comfortable interior and characteristic French soft wheel suspension, became an elegant and practical car for the French middle class.

In 1966 Renault signs an agreement with Peugeot and Volvo to pool technical resources.

In the 1970s the company begins a period of rapid growth: new plants appear in the north of France, Renault and Peugeot joint ventures. The Renault 5 and Renault 12 become the best-selling French cars in the world.

In 1979, the company begins to move into the prestigious American market, having concluded an agreement with the American Motors Corporation, Renault, in turn, undertakes to promote the American Motors Corporation cars on the European market.

In 1982, the Renault 9 is produced in the United States under the name Alliance and is chosen as the car of the year there (this car became a faithful associate of James Bond in one of the amazing movies of this series).

The Renault Espace mini-van was first presented in Brussels in the summer of 1984. In 1988 all-wheel drive version Quadra was demonstrated. In 1996, a new generation of the model with transversely arranged engines, body dimensions increased. In the fall of 1997, the Grand with an extended base was released. Since 1998 the car is equipped with new engines.

In 1987 "American Motors Corporation" was ceded to Chrysler Corporation.

Trucks occupy an important place in the range of Renault products: the heavy trucks department of Citroen, M. Berliet, Saviem vehicles were also included in the company. Berliet, Saviem.

In 1974-83 Renault controlled the famous truck company Mack Trucks Inc.

The premiere of the Renault 25 in November 1983 was triumphant. In June 1988, the exterior of the Renault 25 was modernized. In April 1992, the Renault 25 range was replaced by a new top-of-the-line model, the Renault Safrane.

In March 1986, the next generation of Renault appeared under the index 21 (factory index of the sedan body - L48, station wagon - K48). The station wagon, which appeared six months later under its own name Nevada, had a 150 mm longer body. In Europe Renault 21/ Nevada was produced until 1995, when it was superseded by Laguna model.

In the summer of 1988, the Renault concern strengthened its position in the most popular European class C compact cars, presenting a hatchback Renault 19. In 1991, the Renault 19 Cabriolet, which immediately became one of the most popular in the class of open cars, appeared. Since 1996, Renault 19 in Europa version with sedan bodywork became one of the best-sellers of the domestic market of new imported cars.

In 1990 the production of the Clio model began, which for many years has been one of the best-selling models in France. The second generation of Clio appeared in 1998 and immediately gained popularity. Especially for the markets of so-called third countries, in particular for Russia, a version of Clio Symbol is produced. In the fall of 1999, the Clio Sport version with a 2.0/16 engine was released.

A concept model Laguna roadstar is shown at the Paris Motor Show.

1991 is a titular year: Clio is awarded "Car of the Year", Renault Ligne is awarded AE "Truck of the Year", Renault FR1 "Bus of the Year" and Raymond Levy is awarded "President of the Year".

In the same year, the Scenic concept model is shown in Frankfurt.

On March 31, 1992, the Renault Twingo is born and the Renault Safrane is launched. The Zoom model is presented at the Paris Motor Show.

In November 1993, a high-power Biturbo version with a 268 hp twin-turbocharged engine and all-wheel drive is shown. In September 1996, the design of the model was updated and new engines were installed. Since 1999, the car was equipped with a 3.0-V6 engine.

In 1993 at the Geneva Motor Show a promising new concept car Racoon is shown.

In December 1993, a mid-size Renault Laguna is presented. In summer 1995, the Nevada station wagon is launched. At the Paris Motor Show 2000, the second generation Laguna II model is shown.

In 1994, the Argos concept model is shown in Geneva.

In September 1995, the first show of Megane model (successor of Renault 19 model) was held. The car has several modifications - Classic, Cabriolet, Coupe and Estate. In spring 1999, a modification with a station wagon body was released.

Presentation of "Renault Sport Spider" prototype at the Geneva Motor Show.

1996 Presentation of Renault Scenic minivan based on the Megane model. Spring 1999 Renault Scenic is redesigned. The Fiftie is shown in Geneva. The aluminum sporty Spaider is launched.

1997 Launch of a new cargo van Renault Kangoo. In 1998, a modification of Pampa with increased ground clearance and reinforced suspension is released.

Also in 1997 new concept models Definitive and Lahure are shown.

In 1998, the centenary of Renault is celebrated with the release of the new Clio 2. In Geneva, the Zo project, with Europe's first direct-injection gasoline engine, and the Vel Satis project are shown.

1999 The conclusion of a cooperation agreement with Nissan. First display of the Avantime model based on the Renault Espace. With this car, the French are really ahead of time, and that is how the name of the car is translated, deciding to make a minivan into a car of executive class.

2000 All-terrain vehicle Koleos is shown in Geneva

Renault cars have written bright pages in the history of world automobile sport. Renault team repeatedly wins in Formula Formula in races "24 Hours of Le Mans", Paris-Dakar rally and other prestigious competitions. Outstanding racing drivers of our days - Nigel Mansell, Alain Prost, Michael Schumacher - cooperate with Renault.