Bugatti is a French company specializing in the production of racing, sports and exclusive cars. Even in the narrow circle of legendary exclusive cars there is a special place for Bugatti. Virtually no one has managed to capture the public's imagination as much as Ettore Bugatti and his followers did.
Engineer and artist Ettore Bugatti founded the company in 1909. He followed the path of extensive use of advanced technology in the name of mechanical efficiency and lightweight construction. As a result, the company's assembly line produced a moving car with a guaranteed speed of 100 km/hour, which was easy and pleasant to drive. The Bugatti Type 13, prepared by Bugatti mechanic Ernest Frederick, finished second at one of the French Grand Prix on July 23, 1911. This car became the most significant novelty on the eve of the 1914 war of the company and the base car for all Bugatti modifications up to the model 59.

In the 20s Bugatti became world famous with the Type 35 GP model, which won more than one and a half thousand victories in automobile races and became famous in its time as the most successful model of the Grand Prix racing class. Everything in the appearance of this car served one purpose - speed. The car was very stable on difficult tracks thanks to a brilliant combination of technical elegance and well-balanced handling characteristics. The four-cylinder Type 40 of 1922 was referred to by contemporaries as the "Morris Cowley" of Bugatti.

The legendary Royale model - the deliberately extravagant Bugatti Type 41 - was launched in 1927. The long wheelbase (more than 4.27 m) of the model facilitated steering: the car was unexpectedly maneuverable on city streets. A work of art were the wheels, the spokes of which were assembled from piano strings.

Starting from 1923 the company produced the luxurious supercharged Bugatti Type 43, the sporty Bugatti Type 35B, which was successful in terms of design solutions, and, although not so pronounced as the sporty, but technologically carefully balanced Bugatti Type 44, which was deservedly crowned with laurels.

In 1930 Bugatti presented two cars, nicknamed Bug, at the Le Mans 24 Hours. At these competitions, the unassuming-looking Bugatti Bug, which was based on the design of the Type 40, elegantly and unwaveringly followed the favorites.

The following year 1931 was significant for the company due to the appearance of the Type 50, radically different from its competitors in the Le Mans 24 Hours: while sports car manufacturers were carried away by the pursuit of horsepower and engine power, Bugatti created a perfect engine for that time - 8-cylinder, double-headed, 5-liter, 250 hp. This model was built on the model of American racing cars, but did not copy them.

Up until 1937, a string of defeats lasted for the sporty Bugatti, when the Type 57, with a 3.3-liter engine and understated chassis, won the Le Mans 24 Hours, taking the first two places, ahead of the 3-liter Alfa Romeo, the 4-liter Talbot and the 4.5-liter Lagonda.

The 46 (mini-Royale) was the model most in line with the demands of motorists of these years, impressing with its luxury.

Jean Bugatti, son of Ettore Bugatti, designed the Atlantic on the Type 57SC chassis. This model for several years appeared in all Bugatti catalogs, but only three copies were built. All three copies of the Bugatti Type 57SC Atlantic have survived to this day.

The tragic death of Jean Bugatti a few weeks after his victory in the 24-hour race in 1939 and the beginning of the Second World War ended the sporting career of the Bugatti brand. However, in the annals of racing in the Le Mans 24 Hours this name is inscribed in golden letters!

After the Second World War, the production of luxury cars was drastically reduced, leading Bugatti to financial disaster. Strangely enough, it was Bugatti that in the first post-war years tried to take a modern approach in the creation of its new models.

In 1947 at the automobile exhibition in Paris the company showed a new model Type 73 with a four-cylinder engine with a working volume of 1488 cubic centimeters. But in August, Ettore Bugatti died, and his family was unable to start production of the car at the plant in Molsheim, although in the early 50's there managed to collect a few copies of the Type 101 model, which was essentially a "re-litzen" model Type 57 and was uncompetitive, as it was uninteresting in design and frankly outdated in technical terms.

In 1963, the enterprises were taken over by the Spanish-Suiza company, which was no longer engaged in automobiles. However, in such countries as Germany and the USA, stylizations of Bugatti of the heyday are still widespread.
At the end of the 80s, the company experienced a second birth. The famous Bugatti name resurfaces again, when among the super cars, striving to break the barrier of 322 km/hour, there appears a powerful extraordinary car that has nothing in common with the classic forms of Bugatti - EB110 and its sporty modification EB110 SS.

In 1993 at the Geneva Motor Show the company presented a four-door sedan EB112, created on the basis of EB110.

In 1999 Bugatti brand was purchased by VW concern. The first of the presented cars was a fiberglass EB118 with a coupe body, created by ItalDesign stylist Fabrizio Giugiaro.

At the 1999 Geneva Motor Show, the EB218 sedan made its debut with an all-aluminum body using Audi's ASF technology.

The next step towards series production was the unveiling of the EB 18/3 Chiron prototype (Frankfurt '99), named in honor of the famous French racing driver Louis Chiron. Created on the all-wheel drive platform of Lamborghini Diablo VT supercar became one of the main sensations of the motor show. The maximum design speed of the coupe is 300 km/h.

A month later in Tokyo, VW concern presented another supercar - EB 18/ 4 Veyron. This time the car was designed by VW's own design center under the direction of Harmut Varkuss. A characteristic detail in the appearance of the Veyron is high aluminum air intakes in the rear of the body.