Bruce McLaren, the founder of the McLaren team, was not only a racing driver but also an engineer. He founded his own team Bruce McLaren Motor Racing at the end of 1963. From this moment begins the glorious history of the Mclaren team.
Bruce McLaren's team was one of the most successful in motor racing in the 60s. For Bruce McLaren, motorsport was his life, and winning races was the meaning of life. Already five years later he won his first Grand Prix victory, and his team performed brilliantly in the rich CanAm series, winning championships and making huge profits for five years, and building numerous replicas of their winning cars for sale. Nevertheless, they did not retire from Formula One, although they focused their main attention on their sports car development program.

McLaren's first car of their own was the M1, powered by an Oldsmobile engine. The McLaren M1 raced in the CanAm series in 1964. In 1965, Bruce McLaren hired engineer Robin Herd, who built McLaren its first single-seat chassis. The first car was powered by Oldsmobile V8 engines, and was built as a test car for the Firestone tire company.

"McLaren-Ford M2B", appeared in the first "three-liter" Formula Grand Prix at Monaco on May 22, boosted by a rather outdated but still powerful Ford Indy V8 engine. engine that was deemed unsuitable.

In 1966. Bruce started the Grand Prix in a car of his own design and began working on Ford's Sportscar program, but before that he had managed to produce the M3, which raced in Formula Libre and was later used in films about the Grand Prix series.

Collaboration with Ford brought McLaren a stunning success - in 1967 on orange M6A cars Bruce McLaren and Denny Hulme (Denny Hulme) won the first five of six CanAm rounds and took the top two positions in the series. Bruce became CanAm series champion while Denny won the Formula One championship driving for Brabham. That same year the company also produced the M4A, which was raced by John Coombs. Later came the M5A, which was powered by a BRM V12 engine. Unfortunately, the new car was not too reliable and of the 4 final Grand Prix seasons in which it participated, Bruce McLaren was able to get to the finish line only once.

In 1968, McLaren chief designer Robin Hurd created the new McLaren M7 and Ford provided the team with its new Cosworth DFV engines. This was the beginning of the team's ascent in Formula 1 racing. At the wheel of the M7, Bruce McLaren won the Race of Champions at Brands Hatch, which was the team's first F1 race victory, and the Grand Prix of Belgium.

In 1969, several versions of the McLaren M7 competed in Formula One. At the British Grand Prix, the M9A was driven by Derek Bell. In the CanAm series, McLaren's dominance continued as Bruce McLaren and Danny Hulme won all 11 races and Bruce was again crowned champion, taking revenge on Danny Hulme. A McLaren M10A was built to compete in Formula 5000 and Peter Gethin drove it to win the championship.

In 1970, the team decided to participate in the Indycar series, for this purpose was created McLaren M15. For Formula 1, the M14A was created. In Formula 5000 participated a modified M10, and in the CanAm series - also modified M8. But the successful start of the '70 ended in tragedy. First, during testing of the M15, Danny Hulme suffered severe burns to his hands as a result of a fire, and then Bruce McLaren crashed during testing of the M8 CanAm on the track at Goodwood. It was a big blow to the team. Everyone expected that without Bruce McLaren's energy and talent, the team wouldn't last long. But no one guessed that the real triumph and victories are still ahead.

After McLaren's death, the team was led for ten years by Teddy Mayer, then in 1982 it was headed by Ron Dennis, and over the past twenty years, "McLaren International" has achieved great success, which would be appreciated by the founder himself.

With the help of Dernie Hulme, the team in the 70's established itself in the upper echelon of the leading teams, but by the end of the decade the results were not so good and the team began to slowly fall down. From the financial collapse was saved by the financial support of tobacco giant British American Tobacco, which placed on the boards of Mclaren cars advertising Marlboro cigarettes. New sponsors stimulated the merger of the team with a new project of Ron Dennis for Formula 2.

In 1984, the team wins 12 of the 16 rounds of the championship. Niki Lauda outpaces his teammate Alain Prost by only half a point and becomes world champion.

Next comes Mclaren's finest hour. Alan Prost in 1985 and 86 wins the world championship pittulus. In 1988. A. Senna brings the team a victory in the Constructors' Cup and himself the laurels of the world champion.

Starting in 1988, the team was undefeated until 1991. In the season of 1988 and 1989 between Senna and Prost, acting for McLaren, was a fierce struggle for the championship title and so in 1988 it won Prost, and in 1989 Senna. It is noteworthy that in 1989 out of 16 Grand Prix Mclaren won 15, the sixteenth victory could not be won due to the fact that both drivers came off as a result of a collision between themselves...

In 1987, Gordon Murray, the designer of 34 race cars with 41 Grand Prix victories, joined McLaren. In 1988, he presented the concept of creating a supercar to McLaren's chief executive, Ron Dennis, who was won over by the project presented. The result of the negotiations was the creation on March 17, 1989 of McLaren Cars Ltd.

The official presentation of the F1 supercar took place at the Monaco Sports Club on May 28, 1992, on the eve of Principality's Grand Prix. The cost of this super car was announced there, which shocked the very wealthy members of the club - 530000 pounds sterling. However, 10 people immediately made the first installment to buy this car.

Nicknamed "F1", this car was originally planned as a road car and was not intended for the racetrack. However, the unconventional body allows "F1" to develop the highest indicators in the ratio of weight and power among all ever built road cars: powerful 6.1-liter twelve-cylinder engine "BMW" (550 hp) and low weight of the car (only 1018 kg) allows "F1" to reach unprecedented specific power, excessive for an ordinary road car. The gearbox is six-speed: the first five smoothly accelerate the car to 257 km/hour, the sixth - increases the speed to 386 km/hour.

In 1995. Mclaren signed a contract with Mercedes and the team fell back to fourth place in the championship. After 1995. cooperation with Mercedes was continued and in 1998 gave results: Mika Hakkinen wins eight races and becomes world champion, D. Kuldhard wins once. Also McLaren wins the Constructors Cup. In 1999. Hakkinenu manages to lag behind the title of champion, but the Constructors Cup team gives Ferrari, and 2000 McLaren completely moves to the second line in the standings.

February 7 in Stuttgart concern DaimlerChrysler announced the completion of the deal to acquire 40% of TAG McLaren. The owners of the remaining 60% Ron Dennis and TAG Group S.A. will continue to directly manage the firm. In addition, a decision was made to build new production facilities. At that time the cars were huge and had orange coloring, which probably contributed to victories. The season was nicknamed the "orange elephant invasion".