"Lincoln" (Lincoln Motor) is a division of Ford Motor Corporation, specializing in the production of luxury cars. It is headquartered in Dearborn, Michigan.
Lincoln Motor Company was founded in 1917 by Martin Henry Leland after he was forced to leave Cadillac for General Motors. In 1920-1921, he and his son established the Lincoln Motor Car Company of Delaware, which began building automobiles. The name was given in honor of President Abraham Lincoln. At first, engines for military airplanes were produced. Henry Leland, the creator of the V-engine, used it to equip the first luxury model, which was named "Lincoln V8". The production of this structurally successful model was commercially unsuccessful.

Experiencing financial difficulties the company in 1922 was acquired by Henry Ford and for many years competed with "Cadillac" in the class of prestigious executive cars, loved by high-ranking government officials, policemen and... gangsters. Soviet children's books depicted "Mr. Twister" in such a car.

Henry Martin Leland died in 1932 at the age of 88. The department was headed by Edsel Ford, Henry Ford's only son. During the Great Depression, when demand for luxury executive cars fell, in 1932 the company introduced the Lincoln KB with a 12-cylinder V-twin engine. There was also a model Zephyr ("Zephyr") with a streamlined silhouette of the body (1936), conceived as a "Lincoln" "for the poor" (in the American sense). On its basis in 1939, specially created in the department of "Lincoln" Design Center developed and produced the famous Lincoln Continental ("Lincoln Continental") luxury convertible.

Production of this "American legend" was continued after World War II. In 1956, on the basis of "Continental" there was a model Lincoln Premier ("Lincoln Premier").

In the 1970s, "Lincolns" began to be equipped with units and assemblies of "Ford" and the style of models changed.

Since 1984, the "Lincoln Continental MK V||" coupe of "luxury" class began to be produced. Aerodynamic body, electronically adjustable suspension and anti-lock braking system (ABS) made the Lincoln Continental coupe an outstanding car.

The last version of the Continental was released in 1995 with an 8-cylinder V-twin engine. Externally, it already bears little resemblance to its famous ancestors. Another model offered by the company is the Lincoln Town Car ("Lincoln Town Car"), a traditional large rear-wheel drive large car with a keyless start system and with a V-8 engine, providing all sorts of comfort to the consumer.

The Lincoln LS-series classic was first introduced in New York in April 1998 and immediately became a favorite among fans of large luxury sports sedans.

Since January 1997, the department produces the most luxurious in the United States SUV Lincoln Navigator ("Lincoln Navigator"), based on the Ford Expedition ("Ford Expedition").