"Chrysler (Chrysler Corporation), American automobile company specializing in the production of passenger cars Chrysler, Dodge, Plymouth, Eagle, etc., Dodge trucks, pickup trucks, and various components. There are financial and technological departments of the corporation; electronic and aerospace products are produced. The headquarters is located in Auburn Hills (Michigan). Since 1998 the company is united with Daimler-Benz Corporation into a single concern Daimler-Chrysler.

The company was founded in 1924 by famous engineer and businessman Walter Chrysler as a result of reorganization of the company "Maxwell Motor" (which in turn absorbed "Chalmers Motor", founded in 1908) and "Willis-Overland".

In 1924 the first passenger car "Chrysler 70" with a 6-cylinder engine with a high compression ratio for those times, which had hydraulic brakes on all four wheels, was released. This car was a runaway success in the United States. More than 32,000 were sold in the first year.

In 1926, a more comfortable version of the Chrysler Foyr was produced, and then the Chrysler Imperial Six.

An extremely successful acquisition was the purchase of Dodge in 1928, which immediately made Chrysler one of the most important automobile companies in America. In the same year Plymouth and DeSoto brands were launched.

A powerful leap is made by "Chrysler" at the end of 40-50th years. In 1949, a convenient innovation - starting the car with the ignition key - appears. A number of powerful models lead the company forward in the creation of more and more powerful engines.

In 1955, Chrysler-Imperial is separated into a separate Imperial line. The company makes a strong breakthrough and begins to buy shares of European enterprises: in 1963 it buys 40% of shares of the Spanish company Barreiros Diesel ("Barreiros Diesel"), in 1964 30% of shares of the British automobile consortium Rootes Group ("Rootes Group"), in 1966-67 about 80% of shares of the French company "Simca". These firms are named respectively "Chrysler España", "Chrysler United Kingdom", "Chrysler France" and merged later into "Chrysler Europe".

In 1970 "Mitsubishi Motors" produces under the brand name "Chrysler" small cars for sale in the United States. But the 70s become unprofitable for the company: the energy crisis and ill-conceived production policy had an impact.

In 1978 the management of "Chrysler Europe" department was transferred to the concern "Peugeot-Citroen" (Peugeot-Citroen), but still "Chrysler" was on the verge of bankruptcy. To save the company was invited famous manager Lee Iacocca, who managed to get a large loan from the federal government, proving that the closure of plants of such a giant corporation as "Chrysler" would be a national tragedy of America. Iacocca managed to bring the company to profitability by 1983.

Chrysler is joined by Lamborghini (1987), American Motors Corporation with its famous Jeep division.

The Chrysler Voyager/Town&Country minivan was first presented as a prototype in Detroit in January 1983. In the fall of 1990 a modernization was carried out. In January 1995, a new modification was introduced. In January 2000 in Detroit a new generation of Voyager models was presented for the European market. The Chrysler Town&Country combines a luxury car and a van.

In 1985-89 Chrysler develops small fuel-efficient cars in cooperation with Mitsubishi Motors and Renault.

The Le Baron, which appeared in 1986, held onto the American market for only six years. The Chrysler Stratus/Cirrus, the successor to the LeBaron, was first introduced in Detroit and Los Angeles in January 1994.

Beginning in 1988, a series of Eagle trucks and pickup trucks were released.

The Chrysler Concorde was first introduced in January 1992. The Concorde is the ancestor of the vehicles that are introduced in the Chrysler program as separate models - the LHS and 300M. The vehicles are built on a single platform and are virtually unchanged in 2000.

"Luxury model" LHS with a starting price of $28.5 thousand differs by richer equipment and powerful 3.5-liter engine with 257 hp. This is an extended modification of Chrysler Concorde (in the U.S. - NewYorker). It appeared in January 1997.

Fast-moving 300M, which is in the same price group, differs little from the LHS, but is characterized as a sports sedan of "luxury" class. It was first introduced in Detroit in January 1998.

Chrysler Viper/GTS, a popular super-powered and high-speed luxury grand-tourismo sports coupe based on the RT/10 roadster. First presented as a prototype in Detroit in January 1993, as a production model in summer 1996. The prototype of the model was the famous Cobra of the 1960s.

In the fall of 1993, the Chrysler Neon, a front-wheel drive compact car with a transverse-mounted engine, was released.

Chrysler Cirrus, export name Stratus, (successor to the LeBaron model). First introduced in Detroit and Los Angeles in January 1994. Known as the Dodge Stratus and Plymouth Breeze. One of the firm's best models, characterized by good dynamics, handling, rich standard equipment.

Chrysler Sebring, two-door front-wheel drive car (available in two body styles - coupe and convertible). The premiere was in the fall of 1994.

In 1998, the company merged with Daimler-Benz Corporation. The company formed by merging the two giants was named "Daimler-Chrysler".

In 2000, a new car Chrysler PT Cruiser, designed for the European market, was released. Production was suspended at American plants in 2000 to reorient to new markets due to the saturation of the American market.In the fall of 1993, the Chrysler Neon, a front-wheel drive compact car with a transverse-mounted engine, was released.