"Subaru" (Subaru-Fuji Industries Ltd.), a Japanese company specializing in the production of cars and trucks, is involved in aircraft manufacturing and produces industrial machinery. It is headquartered in Tokyo.
In 1956, Fuji ("Fuji") established a Subaru subsidiary that initially produced Rabbit ("Rabbit") mopeds. Two years later, the company released the Minicar 360 ("Minicar 360"), which was a larger car than its name might suggest. At first, sales of the Subaru 360 were quite low, but after two years, the figure increased markedly, and Subaru became the leading manufacturer of cars of this class in the country.

In 1960, in parallel with the 360-cubic-inch model, began production of the 450 series (in Japan it was called Maja), equipped with an engine with a working volume of 423 cubic centimeters and 23 hp.

In the 60s, the 360 continued to improve continuously: in 1961, the engine power increased to 18 hp, and speed - up to 90 km/h; three years later, the 360 DeLuxe/Custom version with a 20-horsepower engine debuted, which in 1969 was replaced by a new-generation Subaru 360, known as R-2, with a 25-horsepower engine. At the same time, the production of the most charged modification of the "people's" Subaru - Sport 360, which developed, thanks to the power of 36 hp, the speed of about 120 km/h began. At the same time, the quality of production of the brand's cars was increasing (as well as in general all Japanese automakers, which by the mid-70's overtook not only American brands by this indicator, and equalized with West German ones).

In 1965, the production program of the company was supplemented by a completely new model 1000, which became the first mass-produced car in Japan with front-wheel drive wheels.

In 1969, the car with a liter engine was modernized, and then received the designation FF. It was with this model, which later received the name Leone, began a successful attack of Hiroshima company on foreign markets. In July 1972, Subaru launched two models - the front-wheel drive Leone 1400 FD and all-wheel drive Leone 1400 4WD. This event was a significant milestone in the history of the brand.

Fully independent development of the company - front-wheel drive model FE - appeared on the market in 1968. In the same year, the company became a part of Nissan Corporation ("Nissan"), although it remained an independent brand. The company's assembly plants were opened outside Japan, in particular in New Zealand and Thailand.

In July 1972, the Subaru R-2 was replaced by the Rex model with a two-cylinder 356-cubic-inch water-cooled engine. In August 1981, the second-generation Rex (3- and 5-door hatchbacks with front-wheel drive) premiered. At the 1983 Tokyo Motor Show, the family was completed with an all-wheel drive version of the Rex 4WD.

After the Leone was shown outside Japan in 1974, a real sales boom began. Within two years, 100,000 Leone were sold, of which 30,000 went to the States. It was from this time that passenger cars with all-wheel drive became Subaru's specialty.

After 15 years of steady growth, by the mid-1980s Subaru's annual production level approached 250,000 vehicles, of which 53% were exported. The company managed to achieve unqualified recognition in the American market, and the USA became the main importer of the brand: the American share amounted to 58.1%!

Meanwhile, the range of Leone bodies was expanding, and in addition to the sedan there was a station wagon, coupe and even a pickup truck named Brat.

In the fall of 1984, a version of the Leone went on sale - the 1800 4WD model with a completely new look and a 90-horsepower engine. The buyer was offered three body types - sedan and five-door station wagon in normal (Station) and "luxury" (Super Station) configurations.

In the eighties Subaru had in its range of cars of several series: a completely updated Rex, a new, slightly larger Justy, flagship Leone/1800 and a very original minibus Domingo/Libero, of course also with all-wheel drive. Since 1982, the company's engines began to be equipped with turbocharging. In 1984, the all-wheel drive Justy received electronically controlled V-belt variator ECVT. The model is available in three- and five-door modifications. The car has good traction qualities, and is equipped with power steering.

There was a luxury sports car XT Turbo, formally belonging to the 1800th series, but, nevertheless, externally radically differed from its brethren. At home in Japan, the XT was sold under the brand name Alcyone.

In 1987, the veteran Leone was replaced by the newest model Legacy. By that time, the Hiroshima company refused to disable rear-wheel drive and completely switched to 4WD. The new model was unveiled at the Chicago International Auto Show.

The 1989 Tokyo Motor Show revealed to the world another new product from Subaru: the SVX GT-class sports car. This all-wheel drive sports coupe with a high degree of glazing of the surface was equipped with a six-cylinder opposition engine with a volume of 3.3 liters with an output of 250 hp. The car reaches a maximum speed of 230 km / h and accelerates from a place to 100 km / h in 8.7 seconds. In the modern version, the roof of SVX is painted in body color.

Libero cannot be classified into any category because of its tiny size. The car is designed for 6 passengers or 600 kg and can be successfully used for family trips out of town.

In 1990, a new name appeared in the company's range - Vivio. Purely urban car of a particularly small class had an engine of only 658 cc and was equipped with the already well-proven ECVT variator. All-wheel drive super-Vivio accelerated to 100 km/h in 5.4 seconds. On the basis of this bare-bones baby, a rally car was prepared, on which pilot Colin McRae successfully performed on the "Rally Safari".

Since 1992, Subaru has offered a newcomer to the market named Impreza, one of the most legendary and celebrated rally cars. Suffice it to say that Subaru has five individual and three team victories in the World Rally Championship. The all-wheel drive Impreza with a two-liter turbocharged engine has become a benchmark for other automakers to follow. The Impreza is based on the shortened Legacy platform. The model is available in four-door sedan, five-door hatchback and two-door coupe. In 2000 Impreza received a special award "for the excellent concept of the car and its technical features" at the competition "Car of the Year 2000/2001" in Japan.

In 1994, a new generation Legacy appeared. Soon on its basis the company's engineers created, one can say, a revolutionary novelty. Of course, it was Outback, which opened a new class of cars, light sporty station wagons with off-road capabilities. Then there would be Audi Allroad, and Volvo V70XC, but Outback, at least in the 90s, was the first.

Riding the wave of success, in 1997 the Forester was developed, another new product from Subaru outside the traditional car typology. In September 1997, it was presented at the Frankfurt Motor Show. The car is equipped with a two-liter 122 hp opposition engine and a five-speed gearbox and is an off-road vehicle

Of the latest novelties of the company, we can name Subaru HM-01 concept, created on the basis of the first car of the company - 360, launched in production back in 1958. This Micrash has a combined power plant - the front wheels are driven by a tiny gasoline engine with a volume of 658 cubic centimeters, aggregated with a variator i-CVT, and the rear wheels are driven by an electric motor with a capacity of 5 kW. And at the Detroit Salon in 2002 was shown a pickup Subaru Baja, designed on the basis of the well-known Outback.

At the beginning of the XXI century, the total output of Subaru cars approached half a million. In addition to the production of hi-tech cars, Fuji Heavy Industries is engaged in other activities: from metallurgy and machine-tool construction to the production of jetliner and spacecraft components.



