Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd is a company specializing in the production of luxury cars under the Rolls-Royce brand.
The company was founded in 1904 and is named after its founders, Charles Stuart Rolls (Charles Rolls), a merchant, and Frederick Henry Royce (Henry Royce), an engineer. The two intertwined letters "R" and capitals in an academic font were on a red background in the company's logo until 1933. After the death of the last of the founders, Royce, the background became black

The first Rolls-Royce, assembled in Manchester in November 1904, is now privately owned by the Love family. The Rolls-Royce company itself, for whom it was not only a matter of prestige but also of honor to have the earliest surviving car in its possession, has never been able to take possession of this legendary car. One can only fantasize about the amount of the supposed deal, but the historic Rolls-Royce is still there....

From 1904-1906 the new company Rolls-Royce LTD produced several models 12PS, 15PS, 20PS, 30PS - small two-cylinder cars, as well as cars with three-cylinder (only 6 such cars were produced) and four-cylinder engines, with "six", consisting of two blocks - two and four cylinders, and even eight-cylinder "Legalimit".

The new "luxury" cars quickly became a success in the marketplace. Their good reputation increased with victories in motor racing. The first to triumph in the Tourist Trophy rally in 1906 was a lightweight four-cylinder model Rolls-Royce 20 PS (driver C.S. Rolls) with an engine output of 20 hp. This was followed by a new record in the Monte Carlo to London rally, as well as victories in the USA, including the Silver Trophy at Empire City and a new record for cars under 60 hp at Ormond Beach in Florida. All successes were achieved by cars based on the Royce Prototype, of which about 100 were produced before 1907.

But the true birth of the legendary brand occurred somewhat later: only in 1906, when the Rolls-Royce company presented the first Rolls-Royce 40/50 HP chassis under the factory number 60551. This car was soon given an unusual name - "Silver Ghost" (Silver Ghost).

"Silver Ghost", became almost the most famous car on the planet. Already in 1907, the creators advertised it as "the best car in the world".

The successor of the model Rolls-Royce 40/50 Silver Ghost was a majestic and very expensive Rolls-Royce Phantom I, which appeared in 1925. The car was not a very big success because of its old-fashioned design and insufficiently good handling. As a result, in 1929 it was replaced by Rolls-Royce Phantom II. A total of 2,212 Phantom I model cars were produced.

In 1931 Rolls-Royce acquires its competitor, which was in a difficult financial situation - the company "Bentley", which has an established reputation as a manufacturer of good, expensive and reliable sports cars and limousines on the main parameters very similar to Rolls-Royce.

The "Bentley" brand has been preserved up to the present time. It became the basis for the post-World War II model with all-metal stamped body MK VI, which, in turn, served as a prototype for the Continental model.

Starting in 1949, classic luxury cars were given the nostalgic names Silver Wraith, Silver Dawn, Silver Cloud, and in 1965 Silver Shadow. The Phantom Series V and VI were produced on the same chassis as the Silver Cloud.

The prestige of the Rolls-Royce brand was so great that in the 50's the company became a supplier of cars for the British royal house and many ruling and aristocratic families of the world. In total, the royal couple has five Rolls-Royce cars: a 1955 Rolls-Royce Phantom-IV with Mulliner-Park-Ward bodywork, two 1960 and 1961 Rolls-Royce Phantom-Vs with Mulliner-Park-Ward bodywork, one of the Rolls-Royce Phantom Vs, and two 1978 Rolls-Royce Phantom-VIs with Mulliner-Park-Ward bodywork. All cars have a very solid spar frame and "limousine" bodies with a lift-up glass partition behind the front seat. The last two models were equipped with power steering and hydromechanical gearboxes.

On February 04, 1971, the company was officially declared bankrupt. Rolls-Royce, as a national treasure, was saved by the British government, investing about 250 million dollars in the case.

The Rolls-Royce Corniche (Rolls-Royce Corniche) two-door luxury convertible was developed in 1971. The model was produced until 1995.

Rolls-Royce Camague (Rolls-Royce Camarque) became in 1975 the first production car of the company developed by foreign designers.

The four-door model Rolls-Royce Silver Wraith II (Rolls-Royce Silver Spirit II) was presented in 1977 at the Geneva Motor Show. The limousine had a V-shaped eight-cylinder engine (6.75 liters) and a load-bearing body.

In 1982, the Silver Spirit was released, equipped with a V8 engine, as experts believe, not without the influence of Cadillac executive cars.

Rolls-Royce Silver Spur (Rolls-Royce Silver Spur) was produced in parallel with the Rolls-Royce Silver Spirit. This model was the most popular Rolls-Royce automobile in the United States.

The Rolls-Royce Park Ward model, with a 6-7 seater "limousine" body, was intended for executive purposes only. Nevertheless, in official catalogs the model is positioned as a "sedan". Park Ward was first presented at the International Motor Show in Frankfurt, in September 1991.

For its 90th anniversary, in 1994, the company released Rolls-Royce Flying Spur (Rolls-Royce Flying Spur) model, a limited edition of 50 cars. The Flying Spur is a modernized version of the Rolls-Royce Silver Spur.

Rolls-Royce Silver Dawn - is the new name given to the well-known Silver Spirit model at the end of 1996, after another modernization.

The Rolls-Royce Silver Spur II Touring Limousine was Rolls-Royce's most prestigious model. Annual production was no more than 25 units. The car costing under 300 thousand dollars could be afforded only by very wealthy gentlemen.

Rolls-Royce Silver Seraph, which debuted at the International Automobile Exhibition in Geneva in 1998, was the first fundamentally new model of the company for more than 18 years. This model had been under development by Rolls-Royce since 1994 and was to replace the Rolls-Royce Silver Dawn.

In 1998, the German concern BMW gained control of the company. Volkswagen, during the scramble for Rolls-Royce & Bentley, got all the car factories in Crewe and the Bentley brand.

In the spring of 2000, two new products appeared on the Silver Seraph chassis under well-known names: the Corniche convertible and the Park Ward 4-door extended sedan. Now Rolls-Royce managers logically count on the growth of popularity. For example, many Hollywood celebrities from Beverly Hills will want to replace their old convertibles, and the executive Park Ward will find several dozen buyers.

Trade mark Rolls-Royce from January 1, 2003 is fully transferred to the ownership of the concern BMW. The current facility in Crewe, owned by the Volkswagen Group, will only produce cars under the Bentley brand.