Maserati (Maserati), an Italian company specializing in the production of comfortable sports cars with efficient appearance and high dynamic performance. It is part of the largest Italian automobile corporation FIAT.
Each of the Maserati brothers - Carlo, Bindo, Alfieri, Mario, Ettore and Ernesto - in one way or another, contributed to the development of the company, which still bears their name.

Carlo, the eldest of the brothers, was the first in the family to get involved in automobiles. It was he who created the first Maserati car, equipped with a single-cylinder engine and a very simple chassis. But the illness and subsequent death of the 29-year-old Carlo Maserati interrupted the work.

On December 14, 1914 Alfieri Maserati founded the company Officine Alfieri Maserati. The main activities of the new company were the development and production of automobiles, engines and spark plugs. The company was based in Bologna, where the main town square features a sculpture of Neptune, by Giambologna. Inspired by this work, Mario Maserati designed the company's trademark - a trident, which served as an omen for the future of the Maserati brothers' company.

In 1925 Alfieri, Ernesto and Bindo, by order of a large Italian manufacturer and automaker Diatto created a two-liter engine, which was equipped with a fairly successful racing car Grand Prix.

But the birth of Maserati, as a company and brand known to the whole world, occurred on April 25, 1926, at the start of the Targa Florio race. At this competition, the third of the Maserati brothers, Alfieri, presented and piloted the first production car Maserati Gran Prix 1500, bearing on its hood the sign of the trident.

In 1927, Ernesto's Tipo 26 became the Italian champion. After several high-profile victories, the whole of Europe became aware of the company. And from that moment the brothers decided to specialize in the production of exclusively racing cars. The collective genius of the Maserati brothers was focused on the creation of heavy-duty motors. In 1929, the racer Baconin Borzaccini on the Tipo V4 set a new speed record at a distance of 10 km - 246 km/h.

From 1932 to 1939, after Alfieri's death, all cars were created by the younger Maserati - Ernesto. During this period he himself designed all the engines and he himself several times brought his cars to victory at the races. In 1933, Ernesto Maserati was the first in Europe to use power brakes on racing cars.

In 1938 - 1939 Maserati became part of the Orsi Gruppo company. In 1939, the Orsi family moved the company from Bologna to Modenugde and it is still there today.

In 1939 and 1940, American Wilbur Shaw drove a Maserati 8CTF (under the name Boyle Specials) to victory at the Indianapolis 500, helping Maserati to make history in legendary American racing. The Maserati 8CTF, powered by the magnificent 8CTF 8-cylinder engine, became the only Italian car to win the race in its history.

After the war, the remaining Maserati brothers left the company, to which they left their name, and organized their own company OSCA (Officina Specializzata Costruzione Automobili Fratelli Maserati) in their native Bologna. The new company was engaged in production of racing cars, but its cars did not have the same success and popularity.

In 1947, the first GT class car was presented - the A6 1500 with a Pininfarina design body. The racing version of the A6GCS, driven by Alberto Ascari, won the Modena race several times and was a force to be reckoned with at the Mille Milia and Targa Florio races.

The road version of this car was produced in small series and was equipped with an almost racing chassis and a lightweight 6-cylinder engine with a displacement of 2 liters, first with 1 camshaft and 1 plug per cylinder, and then with 2 camshafts and 2 plugs per cylinder.

All these cars were, so to speak, author's works "hand made", were produced in very small series and practically there were no two similar models among them.

In 1954, the single-seater Maserati 250F won the Formula 1 race in Argentina. In 1957, equipped with a powerful and reliable 6-cylinder engine, the 250F helped the famous Fangio win his fifth world championship title and the last title for Maserati. That same year, Maserati officially announced its retirement from racing and transferred racing technology to production road cars.

Then in 1957 the best-selling model of the company was presented - Maserati 3500GT - the first production road model. It was equipped with a 6-cylinder twin cam engine (2 overhead camshafts) with a working volume of 3.5 liters. The body was created by the Milan-based company Touring. Including in the series "3500" there was its own "highlight" - a coupe Spyder from the body atelier Vignale. According to designers and automobile historians, this model, produced in an edition of only 242 copies, is the most elegant among Maserati cars. In 1961, the car was equipped with the Lucas mechanical fuel injection system, which allowed the company to add the letters GTI to the name 3500. Thus 3500GT became the first Italian car equipped with a fuel injection system. Production of the 3500GT was discontinued in 1964, after about 2000 cars had been produced.

At the turn of the 50s and 60s, production of the Maserati 5000 GT began, a car that revived a luxurious pre-war tradition: building cars "to order". Maserati supplied the engine and running gear, and the car's bodywork was "sewn" in the ateliers of Allemano, Michelotti, and Bertone.

In 1963, on the drawing boards of the firm Vignale was born another project, designed to replace the outdated by that time body design Touring. The new car named Sebring, in honor of Maserati's victories in North American races, had a well-established and reliable engine in a modern and aggressive body. The production of its 2 main versions with a 6-cylinder engine of 3.7 liters and 4.0 liters continued until 1969.

In 1963, another turn in the history of Maserati occurred, which distinguished the brand among other automakers. The world was introduced to the expensive fast sedans Mistral and Quattroporte. In Great Britain, the new Quattroporte (translated from Italian means "four-door"), which had not only a luxurious interior, but also excellent dynamics and controllability, cost more than Rolls Royce. Quattroporte was the first representative model of the company. It was equipped with a 4.2 liter version of the V8 engine, which was first used in the 5000 GT. For those who wanted the luxury of the Quattroporte, but in a sportier body, Maserati launched the Mexico model.

The year 1966 was marked for the company by the release of the Ghibli coupe, the body for which was created in the atelier of the young Giorgetto Giugiaro, at that time still working in Ghia. This car became a real sensation of its time and served as a business card of Maserati in the turbulent 60s.

In 1968, the controlling stake in Maserati was bought up by French Citroen. The most notable result of the partnership between the French and Italians was the Indy model (1104 copies were produced), but the alliance between the two automobile companies, which lasted until 1975, did not show anything.

Despite the departure of Maserati from racing, its engines and cars continued to win races. The Maserati V-12 powered 300 Cooper won 2 consecutive world championships - Mexico 1966 and South Africa 1967.

In 1968, Maserati had a French partner - Citroen, (it can be called a partner with a big stretch, because the French bought up a controlling stake in the Italian company, which was in a difficult situation). Then the Indy 2+2 model premiered and production of a new V6 engine began.

In 1971, the Bora model was born - the first GT class car with a mid-mounted engine. With this car a new concept of Maserati models was born. From now on, the company begins to make not just super-fast cars. It endows its road models with comfort and luxury.

The next year the premiere of Maserati Merak took place, which Italians endowed with a V6 engine, developed for Citroen SM. Merak became a worthy competitor to its classmates Ferrari 308 GT4 and Lamborghini Uracco. In 1976, the Merak SS appeared, equipped with a newly modified 3-liter V6 version and a more elegant dashboard from the Bora.

At the end of the Citroen era in Maserati's history, the Ghibli was replaced in 1973 by a new model, the Khamsin, equipped with a body created by Bertone. The car had a 4.9 liter V8 engine with a front-engine layout and had a remarkable design.

The short alliance with Citroen broke up in 1975 and Maserati was taken under the tutelage of the famous Alejandro De Tomaso, who, deciding to refresh the Maserati lineup, created the Kyalami project. The car was produced in 2 versions - 4.2 liters with manual transmission and 4.9 liters with automatic.

In 1976, Maserati updates its marketing strategy and decides to develop a new niche. For this purpose, the company enters the competition with Mercedes and BMW and produces the first in its history executive class car - Quattroporte III with a body from Giugiaro.

in 1981, De Tomaso changed strategy. The solution was the Biturbo, a two-door sedan powered by a new 2-liter, 6-cylinder engine with 2 turbos, producing 180 horsepower. All this was packaged in a small but luxurious body. A real hit in Italy, the Biturbo went global in 1986. Export versions were equipped with a modified 2.5 liter V6.

In 1989, the Shamal, the last representative of the De Tomaso era in Maserati's fortunes, was equipped with a new 8-cylinder 3200 cm3 Biturbo engine, which gave this monster 325 hp.

Soon came the Karif, a true sports car. By installing the reliable 2.8 V6 on the Biturbo chassis they got the fastest car in the Biturbo series. And by removing the roof in the Spyder version, Maserati engineers turned it into a real rocket.

From 1993 to 1995, the Italian giant Fiat Auto SpA bought 90% of Maserati shares and in 1996, under its tutelage, the new Quattroporte IV Evoluzione - the Maserati of our time - premiered.

In 1995, under the patronage of Fiat, a series of races for the Ghibli Open Cup was held. The road-going version known as the Ghibli Cup was timed to coincide with this event. These cars, with just a 2-liter engine, have a breathtaking 330 horsepower. - This output per liter of fuel is unmatched by any other production car, including the Mclaren F1.

In 1997, Maserati merged with Ferrari (in fact, the company was taken over by Ferrari). Since November 1997, to improve the quality and reliability of the Maserati model range, the production of Ghibli and Quattroporte was suspended at the plants in Modena for a year. The modernization of the assembly plant, which cost almost $11.5 million, was successfully completed in the fall of 1998 with the production of the new Maserati 3200 GT.

A new Spyder GT model was released in 2002.

The current marketing strategy of Maserati outlines the transition to the production of comfortable sports cars with spectacular appearance and high-speed performance.

