"Alfa Romeo" (Alfa Romeo S.p.A), Italian industrial company specializing in high-end sports cars and other vehicles. It is headquartered in Milan.
The history of the company began with the fact that in 1906 in Portello near Milan was created a society Societa Italiana Automobili Darracq, intending to assemble French light cars "Darracq". The head of the society was Ugo Stella. Light cars were not popular in Italy and Stella decided to reorganize the only factory of the "Society" into the original production of Italian cars. Thus, in 1910 the company A.L.F.A. (Anonima Lombarda Fabbrica di Automobili) appeared, i.e. "Lombarda Joint Stock Company for the production of automobiles".

In 1910 Stella invited engineer G. Merosi, who had previously worked in FIAT, who created his first child - an open five-seater 24CV with an output of 42 hp. Its less powerful modification 12CV had an output of 22 hp. These models became the basis of pre-war production of ALFA.

On the chassis of basic sports models were made racing modifications: 12CV successfully performed in prestigious competitions in Modena.

World War I suspended production, but in 1915 the company was taken over by Nicola Romeo, who in the postwar period resumes production of cars based on a new 4-cylinder engine. Romeo gave the company its euphonious and easy to remember name.

The great success of the company was the victory of Alfa P2 at the first world championship of racing cars (Motor Racing Championship) in 1925. It was in the 20s that the company's racing cars became world famous.

Facing financial difficulties in the late 1920s due to the collapse of a number of banks in Italy, the company found support abroad - in England, the United States, Spain.

In 1933 the company was nationalized, its management was taken over by a special committee called IRI (Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale), elected from shareholders and employees of the company in the proportion of 50/50. "Alfa Romeo" continues to produce expensive sports and prestigious racing cars, but at the same time the company is entrusted with the production of military trucks and engines for aviation. The production of engines almost completely displaces the production of cars during World War II.

After the war, the company launches a new model, designed before the war "Golden Arrow" (Alfa Romeo 6C Golden Arrow), made with aluminum alloys. The huge success of the model allowed the company to repair the damage caused by the war in a short period of time.

In the 1950s, the board of the company invited engineer O. Satti, who was tasked with combining the qualities of a family and racing car in one model. Thus became Alfa Romeo Ti, as well as its improved variants Ti Coupe Sprint and Ti Sprint Super Sport.

At the new factory in Aresa, the Giulia Sprint GT model with a body type "cabriolet" was launched.

In the 70's, the front-wheel drive Alfasud model became a new word in automobile construction, assembled at the plants in Pomigliano, near Naples.

Since 1982, Alfa Romeo has been working closely with Nissan, creating the Arna model, which combined the features of the Datsun Cherry and Alfasud.

Since 1986, the company became a part of the FIAT concern. Sporty and functional style of Alfa Romeo was preserved in the Alfa Spider model of unusual predatory streamlined silhouette.

The appearance of the new flagship of the famous brand from Milan Alfa Romeo 164, and even with a body from Pininfarina, created a sensation at the Frankfurt Motor Show in 1987. For the first time in a long time, the company shone with originality. And although in the swift and streamlined sedan (ะกั=0,3) there were some signs of involvement (the shape of the doors) to the large "all-European" platform "tipo fore", which was jointly developed by Alfa Romeo, FIAT and 8MB, in general opinion, the late Alfa Romeo 164 was the most successful in design.

The 145 (three-door body) was first shown in July 1994, the 146 (five-door body) in December 1994. These are models of middle class cars with transverse engine arrangement and front-wheel drive.

In January 1999 - a complete modernization of the model.

In September 2000, the model rolled off the assembly line, giving way to the Alfa Romeo 147.

ALFA ROMEO GTV/Spider, sports car models, as well as coupe and spider with transverse engine and front-wheel drive, a joint development with Pininfarina were first shown in 1994 in Paris.

From November 1996 a new 3.0 V6 engine was fitted to the GTV, from May 1998 a new 1.8 TS 16v engine with variable valve timing and a modified version of the 2.0 TS 16v engine.

In the fall of 1998, there were changes in the design of the cars.

The sedan Alfa Romeo-156 ("Giulietta") was recognized as "car of the year" in Europe in 1997. "Alfa Romeo" became famous for its sporting achievements.
In 1999, the Alfa 156 2.0 was optioned with the Formula One-derived Selespeed five-speed automatic transmission, while the Alfa 156 2.5 V6 received the Q-System automatic transmission. Developed in accordance with the technical program of preparation of Scuderia Ferrari cars, Alfa 156 gearbox has exactly the same characteristics as the gearbox of Michael Schumacher's F399 car.

The ALFA ROMEO 166, a transverse-engine, front-wheel-drive E-category car, successor to the 164, was first shown in the fall of 1998.

The ALFA ROMEO 147 was presented for the first time at the Turin Motor Show on June 8, 2000. The European jury awarded the Alfa Romeo 47 the title of "Car of the Year 2001".

In 2006, Alfa Romeo will celebrate its centenary.