"Ford Motor" (Ford Motor Company), an American automobile company specializing in the production of passenger cars of the brands "Ford", "Mercury", "Lincoln", trucks, a variety of agricultural equipment. "Ford owns the Jaguar company. It is headquartered in Dearborn, Michigan, near what was once the farm of Henry Ford's parents.
The company was founded by Henry Ford in 1903 and according to the idea of its creator was immediately intended to produce a mass cheap car. Initially it was the model "A", in 1908 it was replaced by the model "T", dubbed by cartoonists "tin Lizzie". The success of the new model was so great that the constantly expanding Ford enterprises could not cope with orders. In the first year of production of this model, 10,660 cars were sold, breaking all records in the automobile industry at the time.

In "Ford Motor" in 1913 for the first time in the world in production was introduced a method of standardization of interchangeable parts of products and conveyor technology of car assembly, which allowed just one year to raise labor productivity by 40-60%. At the same time, the wages of workers and employees increased so that they exceeded the industry average by two times. An eight-hour working day was introduced at the enterprises. By the middle of 1914 500 thousand models "T" were produced, by 1923 every second automobile in America was made at the factories of "Ford Motor".

In 1920-1930s "Ford Motor" actively opened branches in many countries of the world, including cooperation with Soviet Russia (creation of GAZ and AMO plants). Although Henry Ford had a strongly negative attitude to the October Revolution, he nevertheless believed that Russia had a great future if it took the path of industrial development.

In 1922 "Ford Motor" acquired the company "Lincoln", the management of which was entrusted to Edsel Ford. The authoritarian management style of the senior Ford becomes a favorite target of the leftist press, Ford's refusal to tolerate unions at his enterprises causes a campaign of real harassment. At the same time, Americans by the end of the 1920s tired of the monotonous model "T". Competitors from "General Motors" rush forward, "Ford Motor" responds with the model "Ford A", the popularity of which still lags behind the "Chevrolet" and "Buick".

The Great Depression of 1929 drastically reduces automobile sales. Wages fall by half.

In 1932, mass production of V-8-cylinder engines begins. Ford Motor Company becomes the first company to produce a monolithic eight-cylinder block. It would be many more years until Ford's competitors could mass-produce reliable V-8 engines. In the meantime, the Ford car and its reliable engine became a favorite of practical Americans. An assembly plant opened in Cologne.

Comparatively successful was the Mercury line of cars, launched in 1938. The company is nominally managed by Edsel Ford, but his authority is not comparable to that of his father. Things begin to stagnate, lasting until the outbreak of World War II, when war orders brought things back to normal.

From 1942-47, production of civilian cars came to an abrupt halt as the company turned all its efforts to the war effort. The gigantic wartime program started by Edsel Ford produced 8,600 four-engine V-24 Liberator bombers, 57,000 aircraft engines and more than a quarter of a million tanks, anti-tank units and other military equipment in less than 3 years.

After a brief reign of old man Ford (Edsel died in 1943), power passed to Henry Ford the Second in 1945, breathing new life into the company.

Ford the Younger reorganized the recruitment system, applied brainstorming methods known to him from the war, and invited a group of system analysts to develop the company's strategy.

In 1949, Ford Motor Company sells approximately 807,000 cars, increasing its profits from $94 million (the previous year) to $177 million and achieving its highest sales volume since 1929. Henry Ford II's postwar reorganization program allowed the company's health to be quickly restored. The result was the construction of 44 manufacturing plants, 18 assembly plants, 32 parts depots, two huge testing facilities, and 13 engineering research laboratories in the United States.

The launch of the Thunderbird in 1955 and the now classic Mustang strengthened Ford Motor's financial position. The attractive 4-seat 1965 Mustang became America's favorite. In the first 100 days, 100,000 of these cars were sold. Total sales for the year totaled 418,812 cars, bringing the company $1 billion in profits.

In 1968, the first 1.6-liter Escort Twin Cam began its sporting career by successfully opening the season and winning the Circuit of Ireland, Danish Tulip, Austrian Alps, Acropolis and Rally Scotland over an eight-week period. By the end of its first season, the Escort had won the famous 1000 Lakes Rally in Finland, which helped Ford gain a strong position in the New Car Rally World Championship. The introduction of the vehicle's electronic speed control system. Models with the Twin Cam Escort design went on to win worldwide in 1969 and 1970.

The Ford Taunus/Cortina Western European model was very common in the 1970s and 1980s . Production of the Ford Taunus/Cortina family of station wagons (Kombi) began in 1970 (in Germany, models called Taunus existed since '63). The car was produced practically on all then European Ford plants, and the name Cortina was assigned to the English version with "right-hand drive". In January 1976, the Taunus/Cortina model of the second generation, significantly revised in design, went into production.

Since 1976, with the beginning of production of bonneted cargo-passenger models Ford Econoline E-series of the new generation began to use chassis elements, engines and transmission, similar to SUVs and pickup trucks F-series. In 1992, a new range of comfortable 7-, 8-, 12- and 15-seat all-metal minibuses and four-door box vans was introduced to the market.

The Fiesta family has existed for over 20 years - the first generation appeared back in 1976. The life of the current generation models, which began at the Geneva Motor Show-89, is nearing its end. For 11 years, the Fiesta family has been subjected to serious restyling twice (in 1995 and 1999), thanks to which it remains quite modern to this day.

Crown Victoria is one of the popular models in the United States (in police, cab, rental, aftermarket). Production in Canada. The debut of the model took place in 1978. The new generation of the car was released in December 1990. Update of the exterior appearance - 1998.

Full-size station wagon Vgopso 1980 was a four-wheel drive pickup truck with a shortened base. Passability turned out to be quite high, so the model remained popular for a long time (in particular, in Alaska), even after the appearance of more modern models. Vgopso became in the first half of 1990s one of the leaders in the Russian market among used cars of this type. In 1990, the Vgopso models were replaced by more practical five-door station wagons Ford Explorer.

Ford Escort is produced in the U.S. and Europe, as well as in Argentina in three body styles: five-seat sedan, five-door station wagon and ZX2 coupe. A generation of front-wheel drive European Ford Escort (Mod. 80) with transverse engine layout was introduced in August 1980. Production of the American Ford Escort and Mercury Lynx continued until the summer of 1990. They were replaced by models developed on the platform of the Japanese Mazda 323. In January 1995, the design of the car was improved, 4x4 version with 1.6 liter engine was presented (in 1997 the production of 4x4 model was discontinued). In 1998 a convertible was presented.

In September 1982, models of rear-wheel drive Sierra range with five-door hatchback and station wagon (Kombi) bodies became available, and the beginning of production of three-door all-wheel drive model (XR4x4) with 2.8-liter V6 engine was postponed until September 1983.

In November 1986, the launch of 4x4 version of Ford Scorpio. At the very end of 1991, a spacious station wagon Scorpio Turnir was presented. In the summer of 1998, the Scorpio production was stopped, and the European branch of Ford decided to make the Mondeo model the flagship of the company.

Since the mid-1980s, the Taurus was produced. This model was named the 1986 Car of the Year, and in 1987 it became the best-selling model in America. Streamlined cars of futuristic design with the beautiful names Taurus and Sable, became a major milestone in Ford's transition to the production of a new generation of cars of the 80's - economical (in full compliance with regulations set by Congress), high-tech and aesthetically perfect.

The same year saw the purchase of a 75% stake in Aston Martin-Lagonda.

The purchase of the company "Jaguar" in 1990 further increases the range of Ford models, in comfort nothing resembling the "tin Lizzie", and a year later for the production of multi-purpose vehicle Ford Galaxy, a joint venture with the German corporation Volkswagen.

The company is open to innovation and change; interestingly, Ford Motor, a pioneer in the introduction of the assembly line, was the first major corporation to abandon it, as modern workers are more committed to doing work that has an element of independent creativity.

Ford Explorer, which debuted in January 1990, is between the competing models Blazer and Tahoe and for many years has been the best-selling SUV's in the North American market (about 400 thousand per year). The debut of the new generation Explorer in 2001 model year.
In 1993, the Ford Mondeo was launched, which immediately set new safety standards in its class. The very next year this car was named Car of the Year in Europe and became a favorite among buyers. Also new for 1994 was the Windstar minibus. In the same year, the purchase of the remaining shares of Aston Martin-Lagonda took place.

The Ford Windstar was first shown in January 1994. In 1998, the model underwent a restyling. It is produced in Canada.

The first Ford EUROPE Galaxy model was shown in February 1995 in Geneva. At the Geneva Motor Show 2000 a modernized model with updated design was presented.

In 1996, the 250-millionth car rolled off the assembly line. The realization of the Ka model began.

Ford EUROPE Puma, a small sports coupe based on the Ford Fiesta, was first introduced at the Geneva Motor Show in March 1997.

FORD Focus, long traditionally named Turnier. The European premiere of the car with a hatchback body was held in early 1998 in Geneva.

In 1998 Ford Motor Company becomes the world's 2nd largest producer of cars and trucks in terms of total sales.

In 2000, an international jury of 126 automotive journalists, summarizing the results of an unprecedented competition "Car of the Century" ("Car of the Century"), elected the legendary Ford T. Tin Lizzie became the first car, the assembly of which was established on the assembly line on a massive scale. The new method allowed to start large-scale production of cars, improve their quality and sharply reduce the cost of production. It was the assembly line that made the automobile a means of transportation available to all. And the first in a number of really serial cars was the Ford model.

Compact SUV Ford Escape was first presented as a prototype in January 2000 in Detroit. The development was conducted jointly with Mazda. Car production is carried out at the plant in Kansas City.

Ford EUROPE Maverick, a compact all-wheel drive SUV, the European analog of Ford Escape. Since 2000 it is produced jointly with Mazda on the basis of Mazda Tribute. The new Ford Maverick combines features of an SUV and a highway car.

2001 г. - The company introduces a fundamentally new model Ford Mondeo. Its appearance can be considered a revolutionary event. This car, developed by the European branch of Ford Motor Company, was created on the basis of fundamentally new design technologies. The essence of this technical revolution is in a powerful software product, which is called SPR, which is a complex of computer-aided design systems, computer-aided design and an extensive information database.

Today, Ford Motor Company has manufacturing, assembly, and sales centers in 30 countries. The company produces millions of cars, trucks and tractors each year and is the leader in automotive sales outside North America. Ford Motor Company sells more than 70 different car models worldwide, manufactured under the ford, Lincoln, Mercury, Jaguar, and Aston Martin brands. The company also has equity interests in Mazda Motor Corporation and Kia Motors n.Corporatio

In the "big three" of the American automobile business, Ford Motor ranks an honorable second in terms of sales.