"Peugeot" (Peugeot SA), the largest private French automobile company, specializing in the production of cars, sports and racing cars, as well as special vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles, and engines. In 1974 it merged with Peugeot-Citroen ("Peugeot-Citroen") into a single concern. The headquarters is located in Paris.
The Peugeot family of industrialists and engineers, dating back to the 15th century, retains its leadership position in the company to the present day. The family company "Peugeot Brothers and Sons" in the second half of the 19th century produced, along with its traditional hardware, bicycles and parts for carriages.

In 1889, Leon Serpollet built for the company's first steam car, quite successful, participated in a run of steam cars on the route Paris-Lyon. But the head of the bicycle company Armand Peugeot (Peugeot Armand), who was friends with Emile Levassor, one of the pioneers of automobile construction in France, met with his help with G. Daimler and built his first car with a gasoline engine Daimler in 1891. Although the model was not particularly original, the success inspired Armand to create the following year a whole series of 10 different types of cars. One of the cars took part in the Paris-Brest-Paris bicycle race in the same year and attracted widespread attention. This proved to the budding automaker that automobile racing could be an important part of commercial success.

In 1892 Peugeot received a very interesting order - for the Algerian bey made a graceful car with a 4-cylinder engine and a body made of cast silver (this unique model is a decoration of the museum of the company). The Peugeot car participated in the world's first automobile race - "the great run" Paris-Rouen on July 22, 1894, coming second after the steam train "De DionBouton".

In 1895, the firm sells 72 automobiles, and in 1899 - already 300. The foundation of the automobile company called "Peugeot Automobile Society" dates back to 1896.

"Peugeot" in the early 20th century in line with the trends of the time seeks to create a cheap car, as simple as possible, reliable and adapted to urban conditions. For these purposes the company invited an outstanding engineer and designer E. Bugatti. Such a prototype of "people's car" became Bebe Peugeot ("Little Peugeot") created by him. But another direction in the company's activity was not forgotten - racing and record cars. The Peugeot Goux model of 1913 developed a speed of 187 kilometers, an absolute record of those years. The company was the first in France to introduce conveyor assembly in these years, acquiring the rights to this method from engineer E. Taylor.

After the death in 1915 A. Peugeot's business was continued by other family members. Orientation on mass inexpensive cars "Peugeot" continues in the first years after the 1st World War, when the market comes out economical "Quadrilette" (Peugeot Quadrilette). For buyers with higher demands and thicker purse powerful sedans were produced.

Gradually, the company is joined by such firms that left a significant mark in the automotive history, such as Bellanger and the great in the past De Dion-Bouton (De Dion-Bouton; 1927). Even during the "Great Depression" years, the company managed to maintain its market position by producing improved small cars available to a wide range of buyers. The Peugeot 402 sedan was an attempt to keep the mid-size car market alive. During World War II, Peugeot's businesses came under the control of Volkswagen.

After the war, the policy of the firm, emphasizing small cars, successfully fit into the general trends in Europe. But in the 60s, according to the market requirements "Peugeot" creates in cooperation with the great body designer Pininfarina new models for more demanding and wealthy buyers.

In 1966, Peugeot signs an agreement with Renault to pool technical resources; the Swedish concern Volvo joins this agreement.

In 1974 "Peugeot" unites with "Citroen" in a single concern (in the arms of "Peugeot" together with "Citroen" falls and division "PanarLevassor" now the world leader in the production of armored cars), and in 1978 "Peugeot" includes "Chrysler Europe", which becomes the basis of the department Talbot ("Talbot" producing cars and trucks. The company retains a leading position in the European market of bicycles and motorcycles.

Despite its small stature, at one time Peugeot 205 became a great success for the company. The career of this original car lasted from 1983 to 1995, and its success was even reflected in the French advertising slogan - "the sacred number" (referring to the model index).

The Peugeot 605 was first presented to the public in Frankfurt in 1989 and has been modernized several times since then. In 1998 the car is offered in a new most complete Signature version. The most comfortable and solid mid-range sedan in the Peugeot program - the 605 model has now been replaced by the Peugeot 607. Engine, body and interior modifications - 1993, 1995.

August 1991 saw the introduction of the Peugeot 106, a compact car with a transverse engine layout and front-wheel drive. Since August 1992, a five-door version with a 1.4-liter diesel engine was produced. In April 1996, a new generation of the model appeared.

In 1993, modernization of Peugeot 405 - a typical representative of the middle class - followed.

In January 1993, the Peugeot 306, a compact car of the lower middle class, was presented for the first time. In the fall of 1993, a convertible was launched. In 1997 in Geneva, a model with an updated design and a station wagon body is shown.

The Peugeot 806, a minivan jointly produced by Peugeot/Citroen and Fiat/Lancia with transverse engine arrangement and front-wheel drive, was released in Geneva in March 1994. The car has two modifications - SR and ST. Since the beginning of 1996 the car is equipped with a turbocharged diesel engine, since summer 1999 - with a 2.0 HDi diesel engine.

The successor of the 405 Peugeot 406 model, a middle class car, was first presented in the summer of 1995. The D-class sedan can well be called a success of the company. Especially buyer interest to this model increased after restyling in the spring of 1999. Since the fall of 1996, a modification with a station wagon body is produced. In the fall of 1996 there was a model Peugeot 406 Coupe, designed by Pininfarina.

In 1996 the Peugeot Partner - station wagon with transverse engine arrangement was released. It is identical to Citroen Berlingo. The car has different modifications - a two-seat cargo van; five-seat cargo-passenger van Combi, five-seat comfortable cargo-passenger van CombiSpace.

The Peugeot 206 was first presented in the summer of 1998. This car can be called the biggest success of Peugeot since the legendary 205 model. If not to say more: the 206 model became the fastest selling model in the history of the company. At the Paris Motor Show in 2000, the long-awaited convertible, named 206 SS (Coupe Cabriolet), made its debut.

In September 1999, Peugeot 607, an upper middle class car with transverse engine layout and front-wheel drive, was presented in Frankfurt.

In 2000, several bold concept cars are presented. The Promethee model is a golf-class hatchback.

"Peugeot-307" was presented to the public at the Geneva Motor Show in March 2001.

Peugeot enterprises exist in all parts of the world. The company, keeping in the range of its products brought her once successful small cars, produces such models as Peugeot 406, Xantia ("Xantia"), Citroen Berlingo and others.