"Citroen" (Citroen), French automobile company specializing in the production of passenger cars. It is part of the Peugeot Corporation. The headquarters are located in Neuilly-sur-Seine.
Founded in 1919 by Andre Citroen as the "Joint Stock Company Citroen" (Societe anonyme Andre Citroen) with the aim of mass production of inexpensive cars.

In fact, the first Citroen was at the same time the first mass-produced automobile in Europe. Model "A", also known as "10 PS 8/10", had a four-cylinder single-row engine with a capacity of 1327 cc, 18 hp at 2100 rpm, was light, easy to drive. It had an excellent soft suspension, which later became typical for all "Citroen". The engine and clutch were combined in one unit. All this gave the Citroen a reputation as a very simple and easy to drive car and contributed greatly to its success with the public.

Following the first 10 CV model comes the 5 CV, a 4-cylinder small car without front brakes, with quarter elliptic springs front and rear, devoid of pretensions and capable of driving on unimportant rural roads. The company utilized Henry Ford's method in the production of automobiles. The first Citroën taxicabs appeared in 1921, and by 1933 90% of Paris cabs were of this brand.

In 1921, the "A" model was replaced by the "B 2" with an engine displacement of 1452 cc, which had only superficial similarities with its predecessor. In 1923, a small number of "300 V 2 Caddy" sports cars were produced. This elegant three-seater model was and still is a great success among drivers of those years, as well as today's fans of automotive antiquity.

In the spring of 1922, production of the popular two-seater "Roadster C" with an engine displacement of 856cc began. Because of its bright yellow coloring it was affectionately called "lemon". There was also produced its modification with "Cabriolet" body.

By June 1924 "Citroen" produced more than 250 cars a day. The plant "Javel" grew and occupied the whole territory of the 15th district of Paris. In addition, the company had branches in Belgium, England, Italy, Holland, Denmark and Switzerland. "Citroen" was the first in Europe and one of the first in the world to use steel bodies instead of wooden ones.

Thus appeared the models "B 12" and "B 14", which became the most comfortable production cars thanks to the beautiful dashboard and adjustable seats. In just two years, 132483 "B 14" cars were produced. The "AC 4" and "AC 6" (the letters stood for the initials of the manufacturer and the numbers for the number of cylinders) were based on the "B 14". In 1931, the "CGL" ("Citroën Grand Lux") appeared, the basis for which was the "C 6 F". The car had a 53 hp (2650 cc) engine and a first-class body with rich interior decoration.

During the famous motor rally through Asia, which ended in the Himalayas, the "AC 4" and "AC 6" showed their best side. In 1932, the company released a model "C 4 IX" - a spartan version of the "C 4" with a 30 hp (1628 cc) engine, but the public received it rather coolly

At the Paris Motor Show in 1933, "Citroen" presented the whole range of its products: models "8", "10", "15" and lightweight versions of models "10" and "15".

In April 1934 a brand new model "7", known as "Traxion Avant", was created with the decisive participation of Ki Javel. The disproportionate financial outlay for the period of the "Great Depression" to promote this successful model (front-wheel drive, which was extremely rare for the time), sold until 1957 in various versions, led Andre Citroën to lose control of his own company. The company fell under the control of the Michelin Group. Thus began the era of front-wheel drive cars.

In 1955 at the Paris Motor Show the historical car DS was presented. This car, spacious enough to carry the generation of baby-boomers, inexpensive and safe, was a success among the general public and General de Gaulle. Fantomas and Inspector Juve drove this people's car.

In 1966, Citroën and the German company NSU jointly developed a car with a Wankel engine, but the created company Comotor (Comotor) did not last long. In 1965 in "Citroën" joins "PanarLevassor", and since 1976 "Citroën" is included in the concern "Peugeot" as an independent department, retaining its brand of passenger cars (and "Panar-Levassor" constantly confirms its reputation as the world's largest manufacturer of armored cars). The company's engineers make a great contribution to the development of the automobile. In particular, 1989 saw the first introduction of the third-generation hydractive suspension, which automatically adapts depending on the road surface and driving style.

The first Citroen Xantia was shown for the first time in November 1992. The model was launched in 1993 as a replacement for the Citroen BX. The design of the Xantia model from 1993 defined the further development of Citroen's style.

The Evasion minivan (Peugeot/Citroen - Fiat/Lancia co-production) was first presented in March 1994 in Geneva.

The compact Citroen Saxo was first presented in December 1995. In summer 1996, a five-door version with automatic transmission and diesel engine was released. At the Frankfurt Motor Show 1999, an updated version of Citroen Saxo with improved design was presented.

The light van for outdoor activities Citroen Berlingo was first presented in 1996. Since January 1999, the car is available with a 1.8 liter gasoline engine or 1.9 D diesel engine, as well as with all-wheel drive.

The Xsara family appeared in 1997. Restyling, which the car underwent in 2000, greatly changed the appearance of this car, and today Xsara is the most popular in the Citroen family.

Another best-seller of Citroen concern - Citroen Xsara Picasso model - appeared on the automobile market in 2000

The top of Citroën model range is the c5 model, which was presented in October 2000 at the Paris Motor Show. The c5 sedan will apparently replace the Xantia.

Citroen Pluriel Concept, a multi-purpose transformable car that does not belong to any of the currently known automobile "families", presented in 2000 in Frankfurt.

Assembly of OrionM vehicles from Citroen Berlingo kits began in 2000 at the Taganrog automobile plant. Cooperation with Russia is a long tradition of the company, which once produced special cars for the tsar's court.

In the segment of compact sedans, in which in Europe there is the fiercest competition of automakers, in 2002 Citroën in addition to the restyled Saxo, offered the latest model - Citroën C3.

Among hundreds of automobile companies offering thousands of different cars today, Citroën has always occupied and occupies a worthy place. Apparently, this was the dream of the now famous engineer André Citroen, who, in fact, in 1919 laid the foundations of the French automobile industry.