General Motors Corporation is an American concern, a manufacturer of trucks, including the so-called light trucks (pickup trucks and cargo vans).

Starting its activity in 1900, brothers Max and Maurice Grabowski created a truck for sale, equipped with a single-cylinder horizontal engine. In 1902, the Rapid Motor Vehicle Company was founded and began producing trucks with a single-cylinder engine. In 1908, with the advent of William S. Durand, the General Motors Company is formed, which absorbs the Rapid Motor Vehicle and all other small automobile companies in Michigan. In 1909, the first generation of GMC trucks is produced. And in 1916, General Motors Corporation is formed.

The company's trucks in 1916 participate in the first trans-American automobile rally and cross the country from Seattle to New York.

During the First World War the company GM delivered for the needs of the army from 1917 to 1919 about 10000 trucks and modifications on their basis. After the end of the war, GM began to improve the assembly line at the plant in Pontiac, Michigan, and began converting its cars, changing their bodies, into railroad trolleys and motor cars for a variety of purposes.

In 1925 an important event took place - The Yellow Cab Manufacturing Company from Chicago joined GMC. Now GMC was able to produce both small and medium duty trucks with its own emblem.

In 1927, the T-series trucks appeared, and by 1931 - one of the first Class 8 vehicles, the heavy truck T-95. This was a three-axle vehicle with air brakes and four-speed transmission, a vehicle with a payload of up to fifteen tons.

In 1929, GMC received an order to develop a special truck for transportation of circus animals, particularly elephants.

In 1934, GMC created the first model of a truck with a cab over the engine, which was delivered to Bekins Van and Storage. By 1937, the new trucks of the company acquired streamlined shapes, and the range of paint colors was expanded. By 1939, the A-series models, including AC, ADC, AF, ADF modifications, with numbers from 100 to 850 inclusive, were put into operation.

In 1935 GMC opens in Detroit the production of diesel engines, which become popular in the design of trucks.

In 1938 GMC creates the first pickup truck half-ton model T-14.

During World War II, GMC fulfills military orders - tanks, submarine equipment and special trucks, many of which reached Russia as part of the Lend-Lease program. One of these vehicles was the DUKW amphibious vehicle, capable of traveling on water and land, transporting soldiers and equipment. Undoubtedly, this vehicle is the famous "Duck" ("Duck"), which was produced in three common modifications: two-, four- and eight-ton.

In the second half of the 40's GM enjoyed tremendous popularity - the cars were marketed with success, even without major design changes.

In March 1949, the A-series models began to quickly become obsolete, and were replaced by a qualitatively new design of Class 8 trucks. At the end of the year, the H-series model appeared, which remained the only Class 8 truck produced by the company throughout the 50s. There was also a "Bubblenose" version with a cab located above the engine, which could be equipped with a sleeper cab on request. Series numbers from 900 and above were assigned to the most heavy-duty vehicles of Class 8 category, and numbers smaller than 900 referred to vehicles with a comparatively smaller payload.

In the 50's, "Jimmy" trucks were produced. The 1954 "Jimmy" series 630 is equipped with a 471 Detroit Diesel, five-speed main and three-speed auxiliary transmissions.

In 1956, GMC produces the first all-wheel drive 4WD truck.

The last trucks with a cab located above the engine - type "Bubblenose", were produced in 1959. They were replaced by a model of the series known as "Crackerbox", which was given for the angular shape of the cab, which resembled a box. There were produced modifications both with a sleeper and without it. This truck was produced from 1950 to 1968.

In 1968, the family of GM trucks was replenished with a new truck - "Astro-95" with a cabin located above the engine. It quickly received wide recognition. The truck was equipped with a new semicircular dashboard, a new windshield, providing a better view, and the design of the cabin was completely changed. There were produced modifications both with a sleeping place and without it.

The Astro's were discontinued in 1987. It should be noted here that based on the massive H models, typical for the 50s, the 9500 series machines were created, which appeared in 1966. These were impressive looking trucks with a long fiberglass hood. The hood tilted forward, revealing enough space to accommodate any diesel engine, including Detroit Diesel's V-12.

In January 1988, GMC became part of the Volvo-White group of truck manufacturers, and to this day remains in force, producing trucks under the brand name "New Family", which became a joint product of Volvo-White -GMC and Autocar.

The GMC emblem can be seen on modern trucks of Class 8 category, but there are still in operation obsolete modifications.

Now GMC presents several models.

Sonoma pickup truck (in three modifications: Regular Cab, Extended Cab, Crew Cab).

Full-size pickup Sierra ACE, which was first presented at the Detroit Auto Show in January 1999. Externally, the GMC Sierra ACE is characterized by a combination of rectangular and round headlights, powerful 18-inch wheels, a large number of decorative chrome details. The double cabin is designed for transportation of six people. Access to the rear seat is provided by a third door on the right side.

The Safari all-wheel drive or rear-wheel drive minivan is a compact enough family car for the countryside. Safari is also used for commercial transportation (in Van Cargo configuration). The model differs from its twin Chevrolet Astro by the design of the front mask with traditionally large letters GMC.

The Savana SLT minibus is designed for seven passengers. There are three modifications of Savana: 1500, 2500 and 3500 (accommodating from 12 to 15 passengers).

SUV Yukon has not only all-wheel drive. There are variants with rear-wheel drive ~ such a chassis is lighter and cheaper. Both Yukon with a wheelbase of 2946 mm and Yukon XL with a wheelbase of 3302 mm have the same type of bodies of universal type with a capacity of 5-9 and 7-9 people respectively. There is nothing to say that the comfort of these vehicles is at the level of large passenger sedans. In 2000, the second generation of Yukon/Yukon XL models, which is related to Chevrolet Tahoe/Suburban, was presented.

In early 2001, there was a change of generation of GMC Envoy SUVs, which trace their lineage back to the Chevrolet Blazer SUVs. The new generation differs significantly from the previous model. First of all, it is noticeable by the enlargement of the car, and secondly, it is a completely new car. All external and internal parameters of the car have increased. The equipment of the model has become richer.