HUMMER is an American company, which is part of the General Motors concern, specializing in the production of powerful super all-terrain vehicles with increased capacity. Hummer is produced at the UAW plant of AM General in Mishawaka, Indiana.

The history of Hummer began because of the need of the U.S. military in a special vehicle. As a result, the U.S. company AM General in the summer of 1979 began work on the creation of a vehicle with increased capacity. The program was designated HMMWV M998 (High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle Model 998), which translates as "High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle Model 998" and is pronounced by Americans as "Hum-vie". From this abbreviation the name Hummer was born. The all-terrain vehicle was characterized by ease of control, phenomenal cross-country ability and could carry various types of weapons. It became the main vehicle of the U.S. Army. Recently, AM General and General Motors signed an agreement, according to which GM received the right to sell and distribute the civilian version of the Hummer SUV, and AM General retained the right to sell military modifications of the all-terrain vehicle. A new stage in the life of the legendary off-roader began.

In 11 months General Motors Corporation presented the first sample of military vehicle under the brand - M998, which went into production in 1981 and today is familiar to everyone under the name H1. The results of tests amazed the military - the new all-terrain vehicle exceeded absolutely all requirements and standards of the U.S. Army. Therefore, in March 1983, AM General received an order for delivery of the first batch of HMMWV M998 off-road vehicles to the army. Hummer became widely known after the successful completion of Operation "Desert Storm". Images of the war in the Persian Gulf went around all TV sets of the world. They invariably featured the formidable army all-terrain vehicles Hummer, which jokingly overcame the steep slopes of dunes and walked on the sand as on asphalt, leaving far behind the ultramodern tanks M1A Abrams. After such publicity, AM General began to receive orders for Hummer from private individuals. There were so many of them, that the company proactively developed and put on sale a civilian version of this SUV. Since 1992, its sales to everyone began. But a rather high price, even by American standards, made it an elitist car: depending on the configuration, its cost for the US market is from 70,000 to 85,000 dollars, and the annual sales volume is 2,000 pieces, which is comparable to the sales of Ferrari.

One of the very first Hummer owners was none other than Arnold Schwarzenegger, followed by such celebrities as Sylvester Stallone, Steven Spielberg, George Lucas and even famous tennis player Andre Agassi. Hummer is very popular in the Middle East, Arab Emirates and, strangely enough, in our country. In Russia Hummer is delivered by Moscow dealer GM only on conditions of full prepayment.

Produced since 1992, the civilian modification of the famous off-roader is subjected to small changes every year, which helps the company to keep the demand at a steady level. The latest AM General lineup includes four body styles: a two-seat pickup with a large cargo area (Open Top), a four-seat pickup with a soft top (4-doors Open Top), a four-seat pickup with a hard top (4-doors Hard Top) and a station wagon with a fully enclosed aluminum body (Wagon). The top speed reaches 105 km/h and 0-100 km/h acceleration takes 19.5 seconds. As a power plant is used V-shaped eight-cylinder diesel engine with a volume of 6.5 liters with an output of 170 hp. It has a fantastic resource of 1 million km (!), which together with the stainless steel body makes the Hummer almost eternal, optional installation of tubodiesel with an output of 195 hp is possible. The company gives a warranty for 36 months or 36 thousand miles.

Hummer recently received the TorqTrack (TT4) anti-skid system designed specifically for all-wheel drive. Using electronic sensors, TT4 makes sure that no wheel slips. As soon as one wheel starts to slip, the TT4 brakes it down with the service brake system, allowing more torque to be transferred to the wheels with better traction. As one of the directors of AM General, Bill Thomson, stated, "whereas in the past successful off-road driving was half dependent on the vehicle and half on the driver, on a Hummer with the TT4 system, the driver will be able to rely on the vehicle for 90 percent of the time."

A prototype of a new Hummer called Hummer H2 was shown at the 2000 Detroit auto show. It was developed by joint efforts of GM and AM General designers, and its running gear is unified with Chevrolet Tahoe. "What you have in front of you is not a redesign of the first model," said one of the authors of the H2 project, Clay Dean, an engineer at GM Corporation. - "This is a fundamentally new Hummer that occupies a different niche than the first model." The Hummer H2 is much more luxurious and comfortable than the H1. Interior design of the H2 model is unified with salons of other luxury SUVs of GM concern. The serial models of 2003 will be equipped with Night Vision system.

General Motors is going to sharply increase sales of cars of the famous Hummer brand. The main impact will be made on the H2 model, but no one is going to remove the first Hummer from production in the near future. Demand for Hummer H1 is small, but quite stable. In addition, it is possible the appearance of the H3 model, which will be a "parket" SUV.

A completely new model, named Hummer H3 will be the most compact and the most affordable Hummer car and will be available next year as a 2005 model year car.

The Hummer H3 SUV is built on the same platform as the Chevrolet S10 and GMC Sonoma pickups. However, the body of the novelty and interior trim are its own, designed specifically for this model. It should be noted that the design of Hummer H3 is made in the same style as the larger H2 and received a similar massive grille with a powerful bumper, expanded wheel arches with plastic covers and a powerful hood, under which an eight-cylinder engine can easily fit. By the way, in general, the appearance of H3 remotely resembles Jeep Grand Cherokee, with which, in fact, it will have to compete.