Cadillac Motor Car Division is a division of General Motors, specializing in the production of luxury passenger cars. Its headquarters is located in Detroit (Michigan).
The company's founders were precision machinery engineer Henry Leland and entrepreneur William Murphy. The company was originally called Cadillac Motor Car Company - in honor of Detroit founder Antoine de la Motte Cadillac, and was actually revived from the nearly bankrupt Detroit Motor Car Company. In January 1903, the first Model A Cadillac appeared at the New York Automobile Exposition. Model A was only the first successful attempt of the company, the real fame was brought to it by the Model D of 1905. Powered by a four-cylinder engine, this five-seat car had a wooden body and optional aluminum cladding.

On July 29, 1909, General Motors purchased Cadillac for $5,969,200. GM president William Durant asked the Leland's to remain as managers and run the company as their own.

Series production of fully enclosed car bodies began in 1910. In 1912, a useful innovation was the proposed electric starter. Car owners no longer had to start their cars manually by turning the drive handle. Cadillac wins the Dewar Award for its electric lighting and ignition system.

In 1922, the number of Cadillacs produced exceeded twenty thousand. The company owes part of this successful sale to the new Type 61, equipped with wipers and a rearview mirror as standard equipment.

A new era in automobile design of the Roaring Twenties was associated with Harley Earl, who in 1927 founded the first art and design department at the automobile company, called General Motors Art and Colour Section. It was he who made the famous grille, which to this day is the trademark of Cadillac cars.

Earl's first work for Cadillac was a model of the LaSalle, a small, sleek car that was a cross between a Buick and a Cadillac and was advertised as the Companion Car to Cadillac.

In 1927, the Cadillac LaSalle was the opening car for the Indianapolis 500 race. It was then Cadillac's first appearance in this role, but certainly not its last. LaSalle cars led the race five more times: in 1931 (Cadillac 370 V12 model), 1934 (LaSalle), 1937 (LaSalle), 1973 (Eldorado) and 1992 (Allante).

In its first year of production, LaSalle introduced eleven different body styles on two wheelbases, as well as four Fleetwood designs on a 125-inch wheelbase. The LaSalle two-seat closed coupe even had a small door on the side and a compartment to store golfing supplies.

The Cadillacs of the thirties were the epitome of luxury and technical excellence. With the release of V12 and V16 engines, the company became the undisputed leader of the American automobile industry. The most famous Cadillac models were powered by V16 engines designed by Owen Necker.

In this decade, Cadillac was a pioneer of a variety of technical inventions and discoveries. In 1932, work began on an automatic transmission. In 1933, the first independent front-wheel suspension was introduced on an experimental Cadillac model. It became standard on all GM cars beginning in 1934.

In 1938, 24-year-old Bill Mitchell designed the new Cadillac 60 Special. The car combined a solid appearance with ease of driving and amenities that allowed the owner to drive it without the help of a professional chauffeur. This model set the design trends of the next decade.

In 1941, Cadillac introduced for the first time an automatic hydraulic transmission, air-conditioning system and a fuel filler cap hidden behind the rear left signal light. In February 1942, the company completely stopped production of civilian models and threw all forces to help the front. In 55 days, the first tank came off the assembly line of the Clark Avenue plant in Detroit. During the war, the company also began production of platforms for M-8 howitzers, M-24 light tanks (1944) and parts for the Allison V12 aircraft engine. Even General Douglas Mac Arthur used a Cadillac Series 75 as his official car.

After the war, Cadillac took up automobile production with renewed vigor. The 1948 models had aerodynamic "fins" on the rear fenders, derived from the Lockheed P-38 warplane. This design discovery caused universal admiration. The aerodynamic fins set the trend in automobile design for a decade.

In 1949, Cadillac released the already compact, lightweight and fuel-efficient V8 engine, which made Cadillac America's fastest and most powerful automobile. At the end of the decade, Briggs Cunningham finished the LeMans race tenth in a standard 1950 Cadillac.

In 1949, the DeVille hardtop coupe was introduced. It wins Motor Trend's first Car of the Year award.

In January 1950, GM holds the Mid Century Motorama at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City. Among the cars on display was the Cadillac Debutante, the creation of which was inspired by the theatrical production of "Cadillac of Solid Gold." The company marked its fiftieth anniversary with the release of the "Gold Series" models in 1952. A technical novelty of that year was power steering as standard equipment on the cars.

1953 saw the introduction of the Eldorado, the first all-new top-of-the-line car since the war. Attempts to improve the design of the Eldorado bore fruit - in 1954, a new bumper with distinctive Dagmar "fangs" was introduced, named after the brilliant character from the television show "Jerry Lester's House Party". That same year, production of electrically adjustable four-way seats began.

The 1957 Eldorado Brougham epitomized Cadillac styling. It was characterized by twin headlights and a body structure without a center pillar. The polished stainless steel roof gave the Eldorado Brougham a unique look.

The 1959 Cadillac, designed by Harley Earl, was the best interpretation of the "airplane" style in the automobile industry. This car has been the subject of iconic adoration for more than one generation of Americans.

During 1964, the flaps, a daring design discovery, were improved. That was the year Cadillac produced its three millionth car. Over the next ten years, the list of new inventions and design ideas grew considerably.

In 1962, much attention was paid to safety features such as turn signal lights and a dual chain brake system. A special feature of the 1964 model was also the automatic air temperature control, both for air conditioning and heating. Electrically heated seats (on 1966 cars) were available for colder climates.

In 1967 Cadillac launches a radical new model Eldorado with front-wheel drive. This exclusive high-end automobile was built on an all-new chassis. Exceptional driving performance was provided by a 427 cubic inch engine (1968) and a 500 cubic inch V8 (1970). The Track Master transistorized brake system appeared, which provided slip control. Magazine reviews called Cadillac the "most comfortable and easy-to-drive" car among expensive German, British and American-made brands.

Cadillac met its 70th anniversary in 1972 with many design innovations. The design of the cars was also developed and improved, with the introduction of an absorbent body crumple zone and airbags on the 1974, 1975 and 1976 models.

In July 1973, the five millionth Cadillac was produced. Annual production was over 300,000 vehicles.

In May 1975, Cadillac released the new Seville, which met world standards. More compact and maneuverable, this car was quite spacious inside and had better fuel economy. The Seville came standard with an injection system and electronic engine management.

During the celebration of America's bicentennial, Cadillac introduced the Eldorado convertible model. The 1976 car was painted in the colors of the American flag: all white with blue and red stripes, red and white leather seats and wheels with white inserts.

The all-new 1980 Seville featured sharp edges and a spectacular design that made it unlike any car in America. It was also the first time the Seville was made on the same platform as the Eldorado.

John O. Grettenberger took over as head of Cadillac on January 10, 1984. He was the longest to lead the company - 13 years.

The 1987 two-door Allante was a unique car in many ways. Its body was designed and produced by the Italian firm Pininfarina (Turin, Italy). Many of Cadillac's technical innovations were pioneered on this model, including Traction Control and the Northstar engine.

At the end of the decade, the sleek 1989 DeVille and Fleetwood embodied the efforts of the company's designers and stylists.

In 1990, the company was awarded the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award. Cadillac became the first automobile company to receive the Baldrige National Quality Award and until 1997 remained the only automobile manufacturer to be so honored.

For 1993, the exterior styling of the Fleetwood Brougham was completely redesigned. Cadillac continued the glorious tradition of being the favored base for stretch limousines, including cars for American presidents.

In 1996, Northstar engine output was increased to 300 horsepower (on the DeVille Concours, Eldorado Touring Coupe, and Seville STS).

In 1997, the exclusive StabiliTrack safety system appears on the Seville STS, Eldorado Touring Coupe, and DeVille Concours models. In addition, Cadillac redesigns the DeVille by introducing a new modification, the d'Elegance. This new brainchild of Cadillac has combined a special American chic with modern technical equipment and high level of comfort. Side airbags appeared in all DeVille cars. Cadillac Catera, the smallest high-end model, was also released in 1997.

The main novelty of 1998 was the Escalade all-wheel drive SUV, designed to compete with the Lincoln Navigator.

At the end of 2001, the Catera model was replaced by a new small sedan CTS. The premiere of this "compact" sports sedan of 2002 model year took place at the Frankfurt Motor Show.

For the 2001 model year, the program was updated with the new Escalade II generation SUV. The 2-door Eldorado coupe was discontinued at the end of April 2002 due to low demand.

Cadillac continues a long tradition and continues to incorporate the hallmarks of all Cadillacs: high reliability, state-of-the-art technology and exceptional looks. In the fall of 2003, a program of radical renewal and expansion of the Cadillac model range will begin. In 2004, three new products will appear at once: sporty two-seat roadster XLR, all-wheel drive sporty station wagon SRX and extended SUV Escalade ESV, unified with Chevrolet Suburban. In 2005, the new STS classic sedan will make its debut.