"Mercury" (Mercury) is an American company specializing in the production of passenger cars, created as a division of Ford Motor Company Headquartered in Dearborn, Michigan.

In 1939, Edsel Ford, Henry Ford's son, insisted on introducing a middle-class car into Ford's production program, which was to "fill the niche" between cheap Ford cars and expensive Lincoln models and, accordingly, to become a competitor of Buick (Century and Special series), Oldsmobile, Pontiac and the cheapest Cadillac models. The new brand was named after the ancient Roman god Mercury - the patron saint of commerce. Mercury cars of Lincoln-Mercury division of Ford Motor concern have a higher "social status" than mass cars of Ford division.

At first, Mercury models were produced mainly with a convertible body. They had an 8-cylinder engine and luxury trim. The first car was a modified FORD model, only with increased length and a large displacement V8 engine. The novelty was so successful that it was produced without any changes until 1942. And at this time was planned the first major update of the appearance, which because of the war was the last: after the war, the cars of 1942 and so well bought up, so modernization was not necessary.

During the Second World War the department produced ambulances and small 12-seater buses. The most striking example of the use of Mercury is the fact that U.S. President Truman used exclusively a car of this brand for domestic travel.

The next Mercury model appeared by 1949 - the tenth anniversary of the company. Initially, it was planned to be released under the Ford brand back in 1943 in two versions: compact (Ford Cadet) and full-size. Both versions were designed in the same style. As a result, the Ford Cadet was put into production at Ford's French subsidiary in Poissy (which later became SIMCA) under the name Ford Vedette, and the large version was put into production under the Mercury brand.

In Canada, Ford trucks were produced under the Mercury brand, Mercury cars were produced under the Monarch brand (from 1946), and Ford cars there were known as Meteor.

An outstanding model was the Turnpike Cruiser convertible ("Road Cruiser"), released in 1957. This model had a highly unusual exterior design.

In the 70's a whole series of compact Mercury was produced, thanks to which the company reached new positions in the market. Now the design of these cars is being revised, on which significant funds are spent.

The chase for volume and power of engines brought the firm to bankruptcy, which forced to abandon the formed image and almost completely unify the Ford and Mercury models. Now Mercury cars are only slightly redesigned Ford models. According to leading marketing specialists, Mercury cars are higher in prestige than Ford brand, so they are somewhat more expensive than their counterparts.

The prototype Mercury Sable, a luxury version of the Ford Taurus, like the Ford Taurus itself was announced in 1985. Both vehicles became best sellers in their class. In 1988, the Mercury Sable received a new 3.8-liter engine. In 1989 and in the fall of 1991, the body and interior of the car were updated. The current generation of Mercury Sable, very different from the previous one, has been produced since 1996.

The first show of the Villager model took place in the summer of 1992, at the auto show in Chicago in 1998 was presented a modification of the car. In 1999, the design was updated.

The first show of Mercury Mystique model was held in February 1994. It is a luxury copy of Ford Mondeo/Contour. At the auto show in Detroit in 1997 was shown an updated Mercury Mystique, which went on sale in 1998.

Production of the Mercury Tracer, a luxury version of the Ford Escort, began in 1994; three years later, in 1997, it was modernized. The Tracer is assembled at plants in Michigan and Mexico.

In 1998, the Mercury Cougar, a front-wheel drive three-door coupe based on the Ford Mondeo, was unveiled in Detroit.

The main novelty of 2001 was the appearance of a new comfortable all-roader Mountaineer 2002 model year (m.y.), which went on sale in the spring of 2001. This is a luxury version of the Ford Explorer.