MINI is a brand specializing in the production of the legendary and smallest passenger car, produced for more than 40 years without major changes. Today Mini and its very popular Cooper model are produced under the auspices of BMW.
The company's history dates back to the late 40s, when John Cooper registered the Cooper Car Company, where he began producing compact racing cars. One of his designs, the Cooper 500, opened the way to racing for many athletes. One of his first customers was Sterling Moss himself. Behind the wheel of the first Cooper Formula 2 car, which at that time still had an engine at the front, sat five-time world champion Juan Manuel Fangio. In the late 50's, when among the winners of competitions could still be found amateur racers, the first Cooper with a rear-mounted engine performed on a par with such giants as Ferrari and Maserati, which at that time relied on the front-mounted engine.

Mini car was created by the son of British racer John Cooper - Mike Cooper, and at the same time the owner of the tuning studio named after his father. The appearance of the first model of Mini class in the distant 1959 caused almost a furor. At this time, the appearance of a small and economical car could satisfy the mass demands of consumers. So the birth of the legend - modifications Cooper and Cooper S took place.

The public accepted this tiny car coolly. And in the 59th the situation was not saved even by the fact that in the standard configuration the car cost only 497 pounds sterling, and in the De-luxe version - 537. During the first year of production all over the world managed to sell only 20 thousand cars.

A year later, Europeans "figured out" Mini (in many markets the cars were supplied under the names Austin 850 and Morris 850). In 1960, 100 thousand cars were made, and in 1962 the production volume reached 200 thousand cars per year and remained at this level until 1977.

In the 60's John Cooper achieved numerous successes in rallying with the improved Mini Cooper. But despite its great achievements and popularity, production of the Mini Cooper was discontinued in 1971 by the Navy, which by then had long owned production. But the Mini remained on the assembly line.

The Mini became an iconic, out-of-class car. The car was not neglected by members of the royal family, the Mini was driven by Beatles, Peter Ustinov, Charles Aznavour, Belmondo, Enzo Ferrari had as many as three of them... The list of celebrities from among the owners of Mini takes up several pages of ugly font!

The same is the list of all kinds of Mini versions (there are station wagons, vans, convertibles, not to mention dozens of jubilee series marked with letters LE - Limited Edition). The list of victories in all kinds of rallies, including the first place in the absolute standings of the Monte Carlo Rally....

Time passed, expensive and prestigious brands appeared, but these cars did not lose their popularity due to exceptional cheapness. This was used by Austin Rover concern and produced cars, though not in very large, but quite enough quantity. However, it was not very profitable.

The famous racer and his son Mike, nevertheless, kept the legendary name alive. To meet the growing demand for Cooper cars, in the 80's they produced tuning kits and accessories that could turn a production Mini into a supercharged Mini Cooper.

In 1990, the Mini Cooper, which was then "living" under the roof of the Rover Group, was brought back to life again. Demand for the maneuverable little car did not weaken, and John Cooper Works produced tuning kits for the engine and chassis of the immortal classic car until the end of its production. These "kits" were supplied to Mini enthusiasts around the world.

And the last "real" Mini was released on October 4, 2000. In total, almost five and a half million of them were made. The life of the Mini ended in its 41st year. And began again.

And the brands under which Mini cars were produced, and factories for their production have changed hands more than once. In recent years, Mini was owned by the Rover Group. Then Rover Group passed under the control of BMW, then was sold off in parts, and the "passenger" department of Rover Germans gave for free. But they retained the brand New Mini. Then under the noise the word New ("new") was somehow forgotten... Managers of BMW have long been hatching plans to start production of small, but prestigious, "luxury" cars, and the brand Mini came just in time.

Revival of the legendary model began with a wide discussion in the British press. Even the living creators of the first "Mini" participated, in particular, the developer of the original hydropneumatic suspension "Hydrolastic" Alex Moulton and the creator of the "charged" rally car John Cooper.

They were concerned with the main question - how to preserve the individuality of "Mini" and at the same time make it meet modern requirements for capacity and safety.

In May 2001, a new-fashioned car appeared - NewMini. A modern remake of Alec Issigonis' legendary brainchild. Like any thing that has transcended utilitarianism, the NewMini is not too cheap. Prices for the tiny car start from 10,000 British pounds. In the "charged" version of Mini Cooper, with a more powerful engine and sporty character, the car will cost even more. Good style is rarely cheap, and in the stylishness of "Mini" can not be doubted. The new Mini became incomparably more comfortable, faster, more economical and able to compete with other "fancy" cars, first of all with Volkswagen NewBeetle.

In 2002, the sporty modification Cooper S joined the One and Cooper models. If the only on Mini 1.6-liter engine develops 90 hp (on One) and 115 hp (on Cooper), then on Cooper S its power increased to 163 hp. As a result, the Cooper S has become one of the world's most powerful cars in this class.