"Lancia" (Fiat Auto S. r. A.) is an Italian firm specializing in the production of automobiles. It is headquartered in Turin.
On November 27, 1906 the famous racing driver Vincenzo Lancia (Vincenzo Lancia) together with his companion Claudio Foggiolin founded the company Fabbrica Automobili Lancia in Turin.

On September 23, 1907 the first creation under the name Lancia 18-24 HP was released. Later, on the advice of his older brother, Vincenzo Lancia began to name his cars with letters of the Greek alphabet, and the first-born, of course, received the name Lancia Alfa.

The Alfa turned out to be extraordinary. The high-speed (1800 rpm - it was a lot for that time) four-cylinder engine with a volume of 2543 cm3, developed 28 hp. At the rear was installed a patented axle with a stamped steel beam, which weighed half as much as a conventional cast one. Torque was transmitted to the rear wheels from a four-speed gearbox via a shaft, rather than a chain as on many other cars of the time. This so far the only model of the very young company could not yet claim to belong to the highest automobile society. But already in 1908 on its basis appeared a modified car - Lancia Dialfa. The car was equipped with a six-cylinder engine - one of the first in the world!

In 1913, the big Lancia Theta appeared. On this car, for the first time in Europe, electric lighting was serially installed (on other cars it was offered for an additional fee). The Theta had a four-cylinder engine with a volume of 4940 cm3, which at 2200 rpm developed 70 hp. With it Lancia Theta was able to accelerate up to 120 km/h. The Theta was famous for the highest reliability: one automobile historian wrote that "only a professional car killer is able to break this car".

The First World War made its corrections: by the decree of the Italian government Lancia company was declared a military enterprise. Instead of luxury cars had to switch to the production of trucks, special vehicles and even armored vehicles. At the same time eight- and twelve-cylinder engines were developed.

The war contributed to the development of the company: in 1919, the factory area increased to 60000 square meters. meters. A new Carr model received an honorable place on the conveyor belt, although in fact it was a modernized Theta.

The golden era in the history of the Lancia brand was marked by the appearance in 1921 of the Lambda model - the world's first car with a load-bearing body. At the same time Lancia gave the task to its designers to develop an independent front suspension. Engineer Battisto Falchetto (who later designed the body for the Aprilia model) offered the patron as many as 14 variants of the front suspension design, of which Lancha himself chose the best - on vertical shock absorber struts (candlestick).

In October 1922, this car made a sensation at the Paris Motor Show. Lancia Lambda was produced from 1921 to 1931. About 13 thousand copies of different series were sold (in total, this model "survived" nine modernizations). In 1928, the racing version won the third place in the Mille Miglia rally. Constantly modified, this model was produced until 1938, although it got a new name - Dilambda - and a more appropriate to it eight-cylinder engine.

A feature of the next top-class model was a patented mechanism connecting the engine and frame. Its name was Astura. The suspension of the V-shaped eight-cylinder engine with an output of 72 hp isolated the body from vibrations so well that, according to contemporaries, it was impossible to determine when the engine was working and when it was not. At the same time, lower models were produced: Lancia Agtepa (V4 1924 cm3) and Lancia Augusta with a load-bearing body and hydraulic brakes Lockheed.

The last car, to which Maestro Lancia himself had a hand, was Lancia Arcilia. Vincenzo Lancia died on February 15, 1937. That was the same year the first Lancia Arcilia saw the light of day. In his diary there is an entry dated 1934: "Low weight and aerodynamic style...". The body of the Aprilia model was created in cooperation with the aerodynamic laboratory of the Higher Technical School in Turin, and on October 22, 1949, on the seat of the last Aprilia model coming off the assembly line, an unknown worker left the following note: "Dear Aprilia, leaving me, accept my humble bow. You are the great work of the greatest man who left us long ago. Your creators are waiting and hoping that your new sister will bring us as much glory..."

"New sister" - Lancia Aurelia - was the brainchild of legendary designer Vittorio Jano, the creator of Alfa Romeo cars of the 20s and 30s. Jano applied on this car a risky for those years decision, having equipped the new model with a six-cylinder V-shaped engine. It was thought that it was impossible to balance such a motor, but ... After lengthy tests, it was decided that the engine would be! This engine was aluminum, with a volume of 1754 cm3, and developed 56 hp at 4000 rpm. The body of the car with swinging doors without a center pillar was designed by Pininfarina studio. Lancia Accellia was presented to the public in May 1950 at the Turin Motor Show.

The next expensive model appeared in 1957. It was a beauty Lancia Flaminia. The car could accelerate up to 160 km/h. A distinctive and seemingly comical detail was the "wipers" of the rear window. They were mounted not only outside, but also on the back side, in the cabin! Why? To remove condensate from the "sweating" glass! The car was presented at the Geneva Motor Show in March 1957. For 13 years Flaminia occupied the top line in the table of ranks of Lancia company - up to 1970, when Lancia company went under the wing of FIAT concern. And a new history began.

Since 1969 the Italian company belongs to the FIAT concern and in 1996 celebrated its 90th anniversary, having presented several new cars to the market.

In the 1990s the classic range of models - Ypsilon, Delta, Dedra, Kappa and Zeta - was produced. By 2000 Dedra was replaced by Lybra. The company specializes in the production of the most luxurious cars in the concern.

The car Ypsilon is the smallest among Lancia cars and is the successor of the Lancia-Y10 model. It was first presented in Geneva in 1995, in its modern appearance it has been produced since 1996. The cars are equipped with the Fire series engine with a working volume of 1.2 liters with an output of 60 hp with four valves per cylinder or the engine of the modern family FIAT. In the LS configuration a power steering is installed.

The Elefantino model, produced since 1997, has blue elephants on the middle roof pillars, and it is also distinguished by a fashionable interior coloring.

The Delta model belongs to the category of small cars and is available in three- and five-door hatchback versions. The cars are equipped with a 4-cylinder engine with a working volume of 2.0 liters with an output of 193 hp type HF with two valves per cylinder and turbocharger. With this engine the car can accelerate from a place to 100 km/h in 7.5 seconds.

The car Dedra was produced in the image of Delta, it is equipped with the same engine, but without turbocharged diesel engine. There were 15 modifications of Dedra, 4-door sedan and station wagon.

Kappa model belongs to the "luxury" class and is available in "sedan", "coupe", made in the style of the 60's and "station wagon". The cars are equipped with 5- and 6-cylinder 2- and 3-liter gasoline engines with four valves per cylinder. The Lancia Kappa Station Wagon is a roomy station wagon with a large luggage compartment, which is upholstered inside with fine, high-quality fabric. The station wagon is powered by a turbocharged 4-cylinder engine with an output of 205 hp. There is also an additional storage compartment in the rear of the body. The standard equipment also includes automatic ground clearance control.

The car Zeta is a joint project of FIAT, Citroen and Peugeot. Made in the style of "station wagon" the car differs from structurally similar models by rich equipment, corporate design of the front body panel and large capacity - from 5 to 8 people. The model is equipped with a 4-cylinder turbocharged gasoline engine with a working volume of 2.0 liters, also now used fuel-efficient 4-cylinder diesel engine with three valves per cylinder with a working volume of 2.1 liters with an output of 110 hp.