Isuzu is a Japanese automobile company, one of the world's largest manufacturers of medium and heavy trucks and buses.
The history of the company began in 1916, when the industrial group Tokyo Ishikawajima Shipbuilding and Engineering Co. was formed and began to produce automobiles. The company assembled the first passenger cars on the model of the British "Assumption" in 1916. The beginning of assembly of trucks at the company's plant was in 1918. The first produced model was called A-9. The all-Japanese design was born at "Ishikawajima" in 1928. All models of this company were called "Sumida".

After Ishikawajima Automotive Works merged with Dot Automobile Manufacturing Inc. in 1933, the alliance was named to Automobile Industries Co., Ltd. and the truck produced that year for the Ministry of Trade and Industry was named Isuzu - allegedly in honor of one of Japan's rivers. The following year, 1934, Automobile Industries Co. established a diesel engine research committee as part of the working policy of the company's then president, Tomonosuke Kano. Two years later, in 1936, Japan's first air-cooled diesel engine, the DA6, was born. This was a major breakthrough in the history of diesel engine development in Japan. In 1937, Automobile Industries merged with two other companies and changed its name to Tokyo Automobile Industries Co., Ltd.

After the end of World War II, in October 1945, the production of gasoline truck TX40 and diesel truck TU60 was resumed. TX61 trucks were widely used in post-war Japan during its rebuilding from ruins.

In 1949, the company was given its current name Isuzu Motors Limited.

In 1950, Isuzu developed Japan's first water-cooled V8 diesel engine, the DA80, and created a direct injection combustion chamber with an improved design that attracted interest in the auto industry for its improved performance.

After entering into a technical assistance agreement with the British company Rootes in 1953, Isuzu produced its first passenger car, which was a copy of the British Hillman. In 1959, a 2-ton truck Elf was released, which began to sell very successfully due to the economical diesel engine DA640 and excellent off-road ability combined with payload and durability.

In 1961 Isuzu produced the first diesel engine for passenger cars - DL201 with a displacement of 1991 cc, for which it received an award from the Japanese Society of Mechanical Engineers.

1962 - Fujisawa plant opens, and the following year the Bellett passenger car was introduced. In 1966, a Thailand office was established, and in 1967, the Florian passenger car and Japan's first direct-injection 4-stroke diesel engine for trucks were introduced. 1968 - appearance of passenger car model 117 Coupe.

In 1971 Isuzu sold 34.2 percent of its shares to the American corporation General Motors. As a result of this cooperation, the Gemini passenger car was released in 1974.

In 1975, Isuzu Motors America, a division in the United States, was founded. 1977 - the release of Florian model with an economical diesel engine, and 1979 - the year of release of diesel Gemini.

1980 - the beginning of production of minibuses Fargo series. 1981 - appearance of the Piazza model (3-door coupe).

1983 - launch of the Aska (Florian) range of passenger cars. In the same year Aska took first place in the English RAC rally.

Isuzu produced its first SUV in 1985 - it was Rodeo Bighorn, which for export was given another name - Trooper. This model competes with Mitsubishi Pajero, so the similarity of design solutions is obvious, but the new Pajero has gone far ahead, so Isuzu will have to catch up with it.

In 1989, a new type of SUV - MU (Amigo) was shown. At the SIA plant (a joint project with Subaru - Subaru-Isuzu Automotive Inc.) in the U.S., production of the Rodeo model began in 1990. The second generation Amigo/ Rodeo/ MU/ Wizzard models (since 1998) belong to the class of "parquet" SUVs. Even the base version is rear-wheel drive. The abundance of names reflects the numerous markets, where the models are sold adapted to local conditions.

In the 90's Isuzu wins a number of rally victories. By this time Isuzu became the first in the world in the production of medium and heavy trucks.

In 1997, a new model - VehiCross, an off-roader based on the Trooper, with a 3.2 liter engine with an output of 215 hp. Two years later, the VehiCross debuted on the American market. At the 1999 Frankfurt Motor Show, a concept based on the VehiCross with an open body (and a special luggage rack for carrying mountain bikes) was presented, and in 2000, a 5-door version debuted in Detroit.

In 1998, the company, which is in crisis, reduces the production of passenger cars. It produces the Frontera off-road vehicle for Opel. At the same time the mass production of Elf CNG truck, operating on compressed natural gas, began.

At the same time General Motors increased its share in Isuzu to 49% and a branch in Poland - Isuzu Motors Polska - began its work.

SUVs, mini-vans and delivery vans are now the basis of production of Isuzu vehicles with GVW up to 3.5 tons. These are pickup trucks series TFS (4x2) and TFR (4x4). In Europe they are known as Opel Campo and Vauxhall Bravo. For the U.S., as well as for the countries of Latin America is designed pickup Hombre, which is essentially a variant of Chevrolet S-10. The size and equipment of cabins are identical to Chevrolet.

In the promising market of mini-vans Isuzu is represented by Fargo Filly - an analog of "luxury" Nissan Elgrand. If the first one is sold in North America, the other one - mainly in Japan. Delivery vans and minibuses Fargo Van/ Fargo Bus, as well as a new family Elf UT are produced only for the domestic, Japanese market and are not exported. The Fargo Van model fully corresponds to the Nissan Urvan, and the richly equipped passenger Fargo Bus differ from this model by lighting and exterior design elements.

The range of commercial vehicles with GVW up to 3.5 tons is completed by vans, vans, pickups and trucks of ERV series, cabover Elf NHR-/ NKR-series. Nissan Condor/Atlas trucks are sold under the name Elf 100 in the U.S. and Japan.

In 2000, diesel engine production began in the U.S. by DMAX, Ltd. and General Motors Isuzu Commercial Truck, LLC was founded.

In May 2001, Isuzu's new interim business plan, the V-Plan, was announced. The Duramax 6600 diesel engine was selected as one of the 10 best engines by Ward's Communications, a professional automotive publication (the same happened the following year, 2002). The V-Plan was replaced by a new three-year business plan.

Isuzu is now successfully developing diesel engines with improved environmental parameters in response to increased market demand. In accordance with the agreement reached between Isuzu and General Motors, Isuzu is actively working on diesel engines, serving as an expert in this field within the GM Group.

Some time ago Isuzu announced a new line of full-size pickups Isuzu D-Mah, developed with the active participation of the American concern General Motors. Representatives of both companies call this project one of the most important stages of almost 30-year cooperation between the two automakers. In addition, the fate of Isuzu company itself, which has recently experienced certain financial difficulties, depends on the success of this novelty. Production of cars is planned to be deployed at the GM plant in Thailand, which will be the main consumer of Isuzu novelty. By the way, the Isuzu company plans to completely transfer the production of pickup trucks and SUVs from Japan to this country.