"Skoda" (Skoda Automobilova A. S.), a Czech automobile manufacturing firm. The headquarters is located in Mladá Boleslav. It is a member of the Volkswagen concern.

"Skoda" was founded in 1925 on the basis of the famous Czech company "Laurin&Klement" ("Laurin & Klement"). The appearance of this logo is associated with the name of Emil Skoda, who in 1866 became chief engineer of mechanical workshops in Pilsen, which belonged to Arnost Waldstein. Over time, Skoda's products become famous in the world.

First, the first new car Skoda 4R appeared, and in the early thirties, right after the world industrial crisis, the creation of a fundamentally new car Skoda 420 begins. Four-cylinder engine with an output of 20 hp, 3-speed gearbox, made in a block with the main gear, allowed to reach a speed of 60 km/h, with a fuel consumption of 8 liters/100 km. The car was designed for four seats, had two doors, as well as a trunk, which could be opened from the outside, which was a great rarity for cars of that time.

During World War II, Skoda's workshops, which were controlled by Nazi Germany, produced military vehicles, gas generator trucks and only a small number of passenger cars.

Since 1945, when the communist government came to power in post-war Czechoslovakia, Skoda Popular 1101 was put on the assembly line, which was a restyling of the car created before the war. This car went down in history under the name Tudor, which came from the merger of words Two doors - "two doors". The car continued to be called so even when the four-door modification of the body was released in production.

But really the first new post-war car was Skoda 420, produced in 1953 and popularly named Spartacus. The car had a 4-cylinder engine with an output of 40 hp. The chassis design was traditional for Skoda - a spine frame. In the late 50's the car had a new front suspension - instead of transverse leaf springs springs and telescopic shock absorbers were installed. The rear transverse leaf spring remained. The modification was considered a new model and given its own name - Octavia.

The car was successful, and it was produced until 1971. And since the beginning of 70th in the history of Skoda there comes a completely new era - the designers create a sports coupe 2+2 - Skoda 110R, which in turn served as a prototype of a sports car, which could become a worthy competitor on sports tracks. In this body was installed a motor from the production car, but increased to 1289 cm cc. volume. Later, its power was raised to 140 hp at 8500 rpm. The car was given the index - Skoda 130RS. Skoda 130RS performed both on the rally and on the ring. The greatest success came to it on the ring races in 1981. Then Skoda won the title of European champion among factory teams, and beat even BMW.

In the 80's Czech automakers created Skoda Favorit - a car that claimed to be the leading car of the entire socialist commonwealth, capable of creating competition to the Soviet Zhiguli. But in 1989 the velvet revolution took place in Czechoslovakia, and the automobile plant began, as they say, not the best years. Western European cars came from abroad, and production failures began. The government took up the task of solving the problems of the automobile plant and decided to sell the plant to a foreign investor. For this role 24 firms, among which there were such as BMW, GM, Renault. However, the best conditions were offered by Volkswagen, which retained the production of the Favorit model, raising its quality.

The secret of Skoda's popularity is in the harmonious combination of price and quality of this car. German designers managed to correct all the shortcomings and flaws of Skoda Favorit, turning it in 1994 into an elegant Felicia, which both in its technical characteristics and design rather resembles Western European analogues than a car produced by the country, formerly belonging to the socialist camp.

The real success came with the release of a fundamentally new car for Skoda - Octavia. Its first show took place in September 1996 at the Paris Motor Show. The appearance of Skoda Octavia brings the car closer to its western brethren from the Volkswagen dynasty. It was on Octavia that a new basic platform of the concern - Golf IV - was tested, as a result of which both Golf and Octavia found their buyers, and Volkswagen concern by that time fully owned Skoda.

In March 1998, updated versions (facelift) of Skoda Felicia and Skoda Felicia Combi models and Skoda Octavia Combi station wagon were presented.

This was confirmed by the appearance of the Fabia model at the end of 1999, which from the stylistic point of view became a completely new car, while retaining the brand features of Skoda. Now Fabia is rapidly conquering both European and Russian markets, successfully competing with models of leading automobile firms of this class.

In 2001, Skoda introduced the updated Skoda Superb.