Infiniti is a division of Nissan, specializing in the production of luxury cars, mainly for the United States. The characteristic difference is the trademark grille. The year of its foundation is 1989. It is fully owned by the Nissan concern.
In the mid 80's Nissan Motor in the strictest secrecy began designing and preparing for the production of a fundamentally new car of the highest class for the North American market. About the same time the main competitor - Toyota - was solving a similar problem. History is silent about the authorship of this idea, but in 1989, the models Infiniti Q45 and Lexus LS 400 were presented almost simultaneously.

Since 1992, J30 is known and is structurally similar to I30.

Since the fall of 1996 came out completely original development Q45, which is offered with an updated design and V-shaped 8-cylinder engine with a working volume of 4.1 liters. Like Lexus, Infiniti expands its lineup to include the QX4 off-road vehicle, a luxury all-wheel-drive variant of the Terrano.

The compact, front-wheel-drive Infiniti G20 is based on the Primera platform. After a radical restyling in 1998, the car again began to enjoy steady demand among buyers - middle-class Americans. The transversely mounted 2.0-liter engine develops 140 hp.

Introduced in 1999, the Infiniti I30 (last generation Cefiro/ Maxima platform) was recognized as one of the best modern cars in North America. Traditional for the brand luxury interior and perfectly tuned chassis are complemented by a perfectly balanced 240-horsepower 3.0-liter engine that easily accelerates the car to 240 km/h. Infiniti I30 is not delivered to Europe.

The flagship Q45 of 2001 model year is presented at the New York Auto Show. Massive and at the same time aggressive design of the body is designed to emphasize respectability: from the original elements can be noted large trapezoidal headlight reflectors, wide chrome radiator trim and very high line of side glazing. The interior is finished with expensive sorts of leather and wood. The rear-wheel drive model is equipped with a new 280 hp V8 engine and adaptive automatic transmission.

For fans of "luxury" SUVs under the Infiniti brand is sold QX4 - a modernized version of the popular in the North American market model Nissan Pathfinder with a chic, trimmed with genuine leather interior and more representative appearance. In-line 6-cylinder engine with an output of 170 hp provides good dynamic characteristics, but against the background of competitors, offering as the top models of this class of SUVs under the Infiniti brand with 8-cylinder engines, QX4 looks not so bright.

The Infiniti FX45 is a sort of hybrid between a sporty station wagon and an SUV. It will be equipped with a 315-horsepower V8 engine with a five-speed automatic transmission. The retail price of the model is 44.2 thousand dollars (a weaker version with a V6 engine is called FX35 and will cost ten thousand less). According to Infiniti Vice President Mark McNab, the design of the car was developed in California, and in general it is designed specifically for the North American market. Equipment includes a proprietary DVD-based navigation system, intelligent cruise control, a smart key device and more. The American press has already named this car as one of the main contenders for the title of the best in the class of compact luxury SUVs.

Another debutant, the Infiniti Triant, was on display next to it. The design of this sports coupe is made in futuristic spirit (for example, the doors open upwards - like a "gull wing"). The car is literally stuffed with electronics, its driving performance is not inferior to many SUVs, and the interior can even be called luxurious.