"Land Rover" (Land Rover), a subsidiary of the British company Rover Group ("Rover Group"), bought in 1994 by the German concern BMW ("BMW"). It produces off-road vehicles of the famous Land Rover brand ("Land Rover"). The headquarters is located in Solihull near Birmingham.
After the Second World War, Land Rover Group ("Land Rover Group"), a division of the British company Rover ("Rover"), became the first firm to take a position in the growing market for off-road vehicles.

The first Land Rover appeared in post-war Britain in 1948, at a time of severe steel shortages. It was an ingeniously simple, ingeniously crafted workhorse made of aluminum. Brothers Spencer & Maurice Wilks, who worked for the British automobile manufacturer Rover, created a new symbol car that combined pragmatic simplicity with brute reliability. The car was an instant success, and as a result, by the mid-fifties of the last century the Land Rover brand had already become clearly associated with the concept of resilience, durability and phenomenal off-road performance. Military and agricultural workers, as well as workers of rescue and recovery services found in Land Rover just those qualities that they needed in a car. By 1959, the 250,000th Land Rover was rolling off the lines at Solihull, West Midlands, and the foundations for future market dominance had been laid.

The famous Defender, Land Rover's long-wheelbase model, designed as a versatile, reliable vehicle for the post-war period, has been in production for 50 years with virtually no changes and its appearance resembling the same post-war model. The model is still considered to be the best all-wheel drive SUV.

In the 1960s, the demand for four-wheel drive vehicles increased significantly, and Land Rover was at the forefront of a new emerging market segment. In an attempt to find the best solution to this challenge, Rover engineers sat down to develop a vehicle that would combine the comfort and performance of a family car with the off-road capabilities of a Land Rover.

The result was the Range Rover, which went into production in 1970 and was instantly admired. Its iconic design achieved a unique level of recognition when it was exhibited in the Louvre Gallery in Paris. However, the car's virtues went considerably beyond comfort and attractive appearance, while retaining unique off-road driving qualities.

Throughout the 1970s and 80s, the evolution of Land Rover and Range Rover continued, and recognition of Land Rover vehicles grew through events such as the Paris-Dakar Rally, which demonstrated the brand's outstanding resilience.

The Land Rover lineup includes two more models. Discovery was first shown at the Frankfurt Motor Show in 1989, marking the creation of a new niche - a family car 4x4.

It was followed in 1997 by the Freelander, a more compact vehicle focused on sports and leisure applications, which became the European sales leader in the 4x4 class.

In 1994, BMW acquired the British company Rover Group ("Rover Group"), and with it its subsidiary Land Rover, which had always specialized in off-road vehicles.

At present, the prestige of the branch is still very high. The famous Range Rover model is beyond competition and is the universally recognized benchmark of luxury all-terrain vehicles. In 1994 it was updated for the last time. It is offered with three types of engines - V-shaped 8-cylinder with a working volume of 4.0 or 4.6 liters with an output of 190 or 224 hp, as well as turbocharged diesel BMW with a volume of 2.5 liters and 136 hp.

For buyers of the middle class, a compact Land Rover - Freelander is produced. This model has independent suspension of all wheels and transverse engine location. It has a 4-cylinder gasoline and diesel engines with a working volume of 1.8-2.0 liters.

Discovery and Defender continue to be produced without changes. The last one, a workhorse among all other models, the most practical and reliable, although not very comfortable, is offered with an aluminum body "station wagon". In Great Britain Defender is sold in three variants of base - 90, 110 and 130. They are equipped with a turbocharged diesel and gasoline V-8-cylinder engine with a working volume of 2.5 and 4.0 liters, respectively. These vehicles are very popular with farmers, they are used as police and fire trucks.