BMW, Bayerisch Motoren Werke, (BMW, Bayerisch Motoren Werke AG), is a German automobile company specializing in the production of passenger cars, sports cars, off-road vehicles and motorcycles. It is headquartered in Munich.

In 1913, on the northern outskirts of Munich, Karl Rapp and Gustav Otto, son of the inventor of the internal combustion engine, Nikolaus August Otto, set up two small aircraft engine companies. The outbreak of World War I immediately brings numerous orders for airplane engines. Rapp and Otto decide to merge into one aircraft engine factory. Thus, in Munich, an aircraft engine factory emerges, which in July 1917 is registered under the name of Bayerische Motoren Werke ("Bavarian Engine Works") - BMW. This date is considered to be the year of BMW's foundation, and Karl Rapp and Gustav Otto as its founders.

After the end of the First World War, the company was on the verge of collapse, as the Treaty of Versailles forbade the Germans to produce engines for airplanes, and it was engines at that time were the only products of BMW. But enterprising Karl Rapp and Gustav Otto found a way out of the situation - the factory was re-profiled to produce first motorcycle engines, and then the motorcycles themselves.

In 1923, the first R32 motorcycle comes out of the BMW factory. At the 1923 Motorcycle Show in Paris, this first BMW motorcycle immediately gained the reputation of a fast and reliable machine, which was confirmed by absolute speed records at international motorcycle races of the 20s-30s.

At the same time they develop the Motor-4 engine, the final assembly of which is produced in other European countries. In 1919 Franz Diemer sets the first BMW world record with this engine in an airplane at an altitude of 9760 meters. Production receives an additional impetus after a secret agreement with Soviet Russia to supply it with the latest aircraft engines. Most of the Soviet record flights of the 30's were made on airplanes equipped with BMW engines.

In 1928 the company acquires automobile factories in Eisenach (Thuringia), and with them the license for the production of a small car Dixi (it was a licensed English Austin 7). Its production began in 1929. Dixi is the first BMW automobile. During the period of economic hardship, the small car becomes the most popular car in Europe. By the beginning of the Second World War BMW is one of the most dynamically developing companies in the world, producing sports-oriented vehicles. It holds several world records: Wolfgang von Gronau on an open seaplane Dornier Wal, equipped with a BMW engine, crosses the North Atlantic from east to west, Ernst Henne on a motorcycle R12, equipped with a cardan drive, hydraulic shock absorbers and telescopic fork (BMW invention), sets the world speed record for motorcycles - 279.5 km / h, not surpassed by anyone for the next 14 years.

In 1933 the production of the model "303" - the first BMW car with a 6-cylinder engine - began. This model was the first to acquire the characteristic radiator grille, popularly known as the BMW "nostrils". These nostrils became a typical design element of all BMW cars.

In 1936, BMW produced the famous "328", one of the most successful sports cars. For that time it was simply avant-garde technical innovations: tubular frame, six-cylinder engine with light alloy block head, new valve train system with rods. With the 328 model, BMW became so famous in the second half of the 30's that all subsequent cars with the trademark two-color sign were perceived by the public as a symbol of high quality, reliability and beauty. With its appearance, the BMW ideology was finally formed, which to this day defines the concept of new models: "The car is for the driver". The main competitor, Mercedes-Benz, follows the principle: "A car for passengers". Since then, each company has been following its own path, proving that it is its choice that is right.

Winner of a great many competitions - circuit races, rallies, hill-climbing competitions - the BMW 328 was addressed to sports car connoisseurs and left all production sports cars far behind.

1938 - BMW acquires a license for Pratt-Whitney engines. Then the model 132 is developed, which is installed on the famous Junkers Ju52. In the same year, the fastest pre-war motorcycle model is created, with 60 hp and a top speed of 210 km/h. In 1939, the German rider Georg Meyer becomes the European champion on this motorcycle. And for the first time a foreigner on a foreign motorcycle wins the British race "Senior Tourist Trophy".

The outbreak of war leads to the suspension of automobile production. The priority is once again given to aircraft engines.

Translated with DeepL.com (free version)
In 1944, BMW becomes the world's first company to produce the BMW 109-003 jet engine. Rocket engines are also tested. The end of World War II was a disaster for the concern. Four plants in the Eastern Zone of Occupation are destroyed and dismantled. The main plant in Munich was dismantled by the British. Due to the production of aircraft engines and rockets during the war, the victors issue an order banning production for three years.

Karl Rapp and Gustav Otto, who have not changed their love for engines, decide to start again from scratch. A 1-cylinder motorcycle R24 is developed, which was assembled in workshops almost artisanally. It becomes BMW's first post-war product. In 1951 the first post-war passenger car model "501" appears. However, it does not bring financial success.

In 1955 the production of models R 50 and R 51 begins, opening a new generation of motorcycles with a fully sprung chassis, and the small car "Isetta", a strange symbiosis of a motorcycle with a car, is released. The three-wheeled machine, with a door that opens forward as it moves, was a huge success in poverty-stricken postwar Germany. But due to the subsequent craze for large limousines and the resulting losses, the company is on the verge of collapse. This is the only case in the history of BMW, when the economic situation was miscalculated and the cars thrown on the market had no demand. The question of selling the firm comes up. "Mercedes-Benz" rushed to announce its purchase, but this was prevented by small shareholders, employees of the firm, its sales agents.

Having reorganized the capital structure, BMW manages to continue its activities. For the third time, the firm starts all over again.

1956 - designer Albrecht Graf Gertz, living in New York, creates a sensational car - a sporty beauty. "BMW has beaten even the Italians". - so wrote the newspapers in 1956, when this car was introduced. BMW 507 was offered both as a roadster and with a hard roof. Eight-cylinder aluminum engine of 3.2 liters with a capacity of 150 hp accelerated the car to 220 km per hour. A total of 252 of these cars were sold from 1956 to 1959. Today it is one of the rarest and most expensive collector cars.

1959 - with the new model BMW 700 with air cooling system the concern managed to overcome the internal crisis and create the basis for further success of the brand as a whole. The success was not only in sales. The coupe version enabled BMW to achieve sporting victories.

In 1962, the concept of the 1500 - a lightweight. compact. sporty. four-door car - was received with such enthusiasm in the market that production capacity could not meet the demand for these cars.

In 1966, the two-door 1600-2 was introduced for the first time. It served as the basis for a successful series of turbocharged models from 1502 through 2002. The success of the "new class" contributed to the development of the entire model range. BMW could afford to revive the tradition of the 30s and start producing six-cylinder models. In 1968 the 2500 and 2800 models were premiered. which allowed BMW to rejoin the ranks of companies. producing large sedans. Thus. the 1960s were the most successful years in the company's previous history.

In 1969, BMW moves motorcycle production to Berlin. The production of a new series of opposition motorcycles begins. In 1976, the R100 RS is fitted with a full-size fairing for the first time. In 1983, one of the most popular motorcycle models - the K100 with a 4-cylinder in-line engine with liquid cooling and fuel injection - is produced. In 1985, the centenary year of the motorcycle, the factory in Berlin produces more than 37 thousand motorcycles. In 1989, the K 1 motorcycle is presented.

In the 1970s, the first cars of the famous BMW series appear - models of the 3-series, 5-series, 6-series, 7-series. The production of a fundamentally new generation of BMW models began with the release of the 5th series. If earlier the concern occupied mainly the niche of sports cars, now it has taken its place in the segment of comfortable sedans. The 3.0 CSL coupe, which has won six European championships since 1973, allows BMW to achieve special success. This coupe concealed many technical innovations. It had BMW's first six-cylinder engine with four valves per cylinder and its braking system was fitted with ABS - a perfect innovation at the time.

In 1977, a new breakthrough in the luxury class. With the introduction of the 7 Series, the fundamental renewal of all BMW series came to an end.

Since 1986, the BMW M3 has been the most successful road-racing car in the world. The compact two-door model was developed in parallel for both series production and motorsport. The result was a triumph for BMW. In 1987, the Italian Roberto Raviglia won first place in the world championship for road-ring racing. And for the next five years, the BMW M3 dominated the sporting scene.

Translated with DeepL.com (free version)
In 1987, the new roadster, which was originally conceived simply as an experimental model, continued the tradition of BMW roadsters of the 30s and 50s. The BMW Z1 was built in 8,000 copies and was the bearer of state-of-the-art technology. Aerodynamics of this car was also on an exemplary level. In 1987, BMW was one of the first companies in the world to use an electronic engine power control system.

In 1990, a new dream coupe: the BMW 850i. At the heart of this elegant luxury coupe was a twelve-cylinder engine that could literally shoot the car forward at any speed. The all-new integral rear axle uniquely combined sporty qualities with the highest level of comfort.

In the year of German reunification, the concern, having founded BMW Rolls-Royce GmbH, returned to its roots in the field of aircraft engine building and in 1991 presented a new aircraft engine BR-700. In the early 90s, the third-generation 3-series sports compact cars and the 8-series coupe appeared on the market.

Not a bad step for the company was the purchase in 1994 for 2.3 billion German marks industrial group Rover Group ("Rover Group"), and together with it and the largest in the UK complex for the production of cars brands Rover, Land Rover and MG. With the purchase of this company, the list of BMW vehicles was supplemented by the missing ultra-small cars and SUVs.

Since 1995, all BMW cars are equipped with front passenger airbag and anti-theft engine locking system as standard. In March of the same year, the 3-series touring station wagon was launched. The new car was characterized not only by modern design, but also by the most advanced technology. For example, for the first time in the automotive industry, the running gear was almost entirely made of aluminum.

Also 1995 - the debut of the new 5-th series BMW. The main principle in its development was the creation of a harmonious concept. The new car was distinguished not only by its modern design, but also by the most advanced technology: for the first time in the automotive industry, the chassis was almost entirely made of aluminum. The use of new materials increased the vehicle's utilization rate to 85 percent. The exceptionally rigid body provides an unrivaled level of passive safety.

In 1996, the BMW Z3 7 Series was equipped with a diesel engine for the first time. The unique synthesis of dynamism and classic design is a simply delightful concept. Additional advertising for the car is created by the movie "GoldenEye", in which the Z3 is driven by the super agent 007 James Bond. The BMW Z3 has become a best-seller. The new factory in Spartanburg does not have time to fulfill all orders.

In 1997, the motorcycle that cannot leave indifferent - the Model R 1200 C, is a completely new interpretation of the road bike. A sensational design that combined traditional and futuristic elements. It received the largest BMW opposition engine ever built. Its displacement is 1170 cc. and its power output is 61 hp. In the same year, BMW presents another dream car. It is about the M roadster, which like no other is a true embodiment of a purebred open-top sports car.

In 1997, BMW introduced a dream car that made the hearts of connoisseurs jump. The M roadster embodied the ideal of a purebred sports car like no BMW before it. Its 321-horsepower M3 engine guaranteed a thrilling ride.

In the spring of 1998, the fifth generation of the successful 3 Series sedan debuted. Redesigned in a multitude of details, the new 3 Series offers not only exceptional looks, but also state-of-the-art engines, the latest suspension technology and best-in-class safety standards.

The beginning of 1999 was marked by the debut of the BMW X5, which became the world's first Sports Activity Vehicle: a vehicle that uniquely combines elegance and practicality, thus opening up a new dimension of mobility.

And another first: the BMW Z8, a great sports car, celebrated its premiere in 1999 and delighted James Bond fans in the movie "And the Whole World Is Not Enough".

In 1999, BMW also surprised car enthusiasts at the Frankfurt Motor Show with the futuristic Z9 gran turismo concept.

BMW, which began as a small aircraft engine factory, now manufactures its products in five plants in Germany and twenty-two subsidiaries scattered around the world. It is one of the few automobile firms that does not use robots in its factories. All assembly on the conveyor belt is done only manually. The output is only computerized diagnostics of the main parameters of the car.