Bentley Cars Ltd. - is an English company specializing in the production of automobiles.
The founder of the legendary aristocratic car brand, formed in 1919, Walter Owen Bentley (Walter Owen Bentley), his first car with a 3-liter "four" developed together with F. Barges and G. Varley. In the fall of the same year, Walter Bentley showed his firstborn at the motor show in London, but the production was able to establish only after two years. By the way, from the very beginning Bentley aimed at the production of prestigious cars. The volume of three liters made the car unattainable for ordinary motorists, and the unique for that time warranty period of five years attracted the attention of wealthy people. The car had an uncomplicated name - 3L, which meant just the presence of a 3-liter engine. Later this designation became traditional. And only somewhere from the mid-twenties in the name began to appear verbal designations, for example, Big Six.

Bentley, not burdening himself with design refinements, paid special attention to the technical side of the issue. He saw the main purpose of his cars in winning car races. Indeed, it rarely happened that Bentley cars did not win sports competitions. The use of large displacement engines allowed to "remove" from them a considerable amount of horsepower. One of them was the 4.5L model with a rotary supercharger Roots, placed in front of the radiator. This car was specially designed for the famous racer and industrial magnate G. Birkin. In those years the car became one of the most powerful and fastest, and, despite the critical attitude to it by Bentley himself, brought his company even greater fame.

In 1928-30 in small quantities were assembled cars model "6.5L" and its sporty variant "Speed Six". In three years this car won races twice at Le Mans and three times at Brooklands.

The production of the "8L" model - the most expensive and prestigious in the company's lineup - began in 1930.

The early thirties were marked by the loss of Bentley's independence. Thus, through the intermediary of Napier, Bentley became part of another elite automobile company Rolls-Royce. This marked the beginning of a new stage in the history of the company, which did not diminish the prestige and position it had earned earlier. Bentley. now called SS Cars (which means silent sports car). became the undisputed leader among high-class British cars.

The first Bentley created in collaboration with Rolls-Royce specialists was the 3.5L model (1933). In 1936, the 4.5L model based on Rolls-Royce 20/25NR and Rolls-Royce25/30 HP appeared. Beginning in 1933, seven very similar in construction and design models were produced.

Gradually the production of Bentley cars began to move from Derby to the Rolls-Royce factory in Crewe. And the first fully built model there was the Mark-VI, launched a few months after the end of World War II. The base for this car was Rolls-Royce Silver Wraith. And since 1955, all Bentley models were full copies of Rolls-Royce. Nevertheless, despite the constructive similarity of both brands, there was and still is the main difference between them: Rolls-Royce is an executive car, and the place of its owner is in the back. Bentley, on the contrary, is a car for people who can and love to drive.

In 1952 Bentley presented Continental model. It was a sporty two-door car, which became famous as the fastest production sedan.

1955 - the S series demonstrated the final technical convergence of the brands. Bentley S1 became a copy of Rolls-Royce Silver Wraith.

In 1963 the S3 model appeared. In 1965 the Bentley T model was launched.

Production of turbocharged models begins in the 70s. - These models are Mulsanne Turbo and Turbo R, bearing the Bentley trademark. According to connoisseurs, Bentley Mulsanne Turbo became one of the best sedans in the world, even compared to Mercedes-Benz 600SEL.
The modern program of the company was formed about 20 years. In 1980, the Mulsanne model was presented, two years later a 300-horsepower turbocharged version saw the light, and a couple of years later - a simplified version of the Eight. The rest of the models were created according to the so-called "Project 90", with different bodies and some external differences from their Rolls-Royse brethren - Turbo R and Brooklands, only the Continental model had no analogs. The family of these expensive sports coupes is primarily designed for young and ambitious millionaires, to whom sports cars like Ferrari seem too utilitarian and lacking in comfort. The currently produced Continental has three main modifications "R", "T" and "SC". Model "R" is the cheaper in the family (only 314 thousand dollars) and is characterized by a distinctive finish, as well as comfortable and at the same time perfectly tuned for fast driving suspension. Model "T" has 100 mm shorter base, more sporty suspension and powerful engine with 426 hp. But the most interesting from this "opera" is modification "SC" (Sedanca Coupe) with a rigid retractable roof. In the usual state - it is a closed coupe, however, if desired, the part of the roof over the front seats is automatically removed. And the latest models for today are Azure convertible and of course, created on the basis of Rolls-Royce Silver Seraph model Bentley Arnage.

In 1991, the Bentley Continental-Azure model was launched. Later in 1996, following the Continental R, the Continental T was added to the family of these cars.

Production of Bentley Azure model began in 1996.

In 1997, the Turbo RT model was shown for the first time.

The reshuffle in the automotive world that reigns these days has led to the fact that Bentley Motors was freed from the bonds of Rolls-Royce and in 1998 came under the control of Volkswagen AG.

Today, one of the main highlights of the production program is the Arnage model (premiered in April 1998, Turin). It is powered by a BMW V8 engine (4.4 liters) with twin Garrett turbochargers and is available in two basic versions - Red Label (a sportier version, 400 hp) and Green Label (354 hp). Passenger safety of this ultra-luxury sedan is provided by two airbags, ABS, traction-control, and a system that cuts off the fuel supply, unlocks the doors and separates the steering column in case of an accident.

Bentley's timeless "classics" are also in service - various versions of the Continental model (March 1991, Geneva), which are distinguished by the excellent quality of interior trim (leather from Conolli, panels of rare wood or polished aluminum) and thoughtful chassis design. The most powerful Continental T with a shortened base and 6.8-liter turbo engine of Vickers design develops 426 hp and is considered one of the fastest coupes in the world - the maximum speed is 273 km/h at a GVW of 2850 kg. Like other Bentley models of the 1998 model year, the Continental received a more sporty, aggressive look - now the car is equipped with alloy wheels and a matrix grille.

The design of the soft leather top for the Azure convertible was developed and produced by the Italian company Pininfarina. The Bentley convertible premiered at the end of 2000 at the Birmingham Motor Show.

2001 г. - Bently EX Speed 8 will make its debut on the American continent at the Detroit-2001 Auto Show.

In addition to all of the above, we would like to mention about Bentley S-2 model, which belonged to the greatest musician of the twentieth century - John Lennon. This car was specially purchased by him for the presentation in America of the Beatles' album Yellow Submarine. For the full breadth of perception of the new album and attracting a larger audience to it, the car was specially painted under the careful guidance of Lennon himself, in a unique psychedelic style, inspired by him and other members of the band, apparently after a lot of marijuana use. It is said that the previous owner was so shocked to see the transformation that he was speechless for a few minutes. Nevertheless, all these experiments made the car a unique piece of history, keeping the imprint of the era of long gone years.