"Jeep" (Jeep), a division of the American concern Chrysler, specializing in the production of off-road vehicles of the Jeep brand. The headquarters is located in Detroit (Michigan).

The creator of Jeep vehicles is considered to be American engineer and industrialist Arthur Herrington.

After the First World War, he worked in France, where he was engaged in the problem of creating vehicles of high cross-country ability. He conducted experiments on four- and six-wheeled trucks in cooperation with the company "Marmon Motor" from Indianapolis, Indiana. The car, created by him, received the name "jeep" (phonetic transfer of the English abbreviation GP - jeep, which means general purpose).

But the glory of the car named "jeep" was given by the American firm Willys. And it is the model of wartime - army jeep - allows to rank Willys among the great automobile companies.

The need for a reconnaissance all-terrain vehicle had long been felt by the U.S. Army, especially with the outbreak of World War II. A total of 135 American firms were invited to bid on the vehicle.

Willys also developed its own version of the all-terrain vehicle. It was presented to the army leadership on November 11, 1940, and on November 23, Ford showed its version. Each of the companies received an order for 1500 vehicles, the delivery of which began in early 1941. However, in July 1941, the U.S. government decided to keep only one model of the vehicle in service. The choice fell on Willys MA, but it was subjected to modernization taking into account the results of tests and the need for unification between different companies.

Since 1942, mass production of cars under the Willys MB and Ford GPW brands began. The cars of the two firms were practically indistinguishable from each other. They had a standard Willys 77 motor and a three-speed gearbox. The all-terrain vehicle accommodated four people, weighed just over a ton and reached speeds of up to 105 km/h. In those years Willys produced more than 360 thousand "jeeps", most of which went into service with the Red Army. Ford made a little less - about 270 thousand cars.

Army "jeep" brought Willys firm unprecedented success and world fame. It is not surprising that in the second half of the 40's, and in the 50's, all developments of the company followed the former popularity of the "jeep". The company could not create something fundamentally new. Its numerous postwar cargo-passenger and recreational vehicles were only civilian because they were not painted in the color "khaki". Practically the same army jeep was produced as a civilian under the index CJ (civilian jeep). By the early 60's the company "Willys" stopped production of jeeps, but it was continued by other companies.

Since 1963, the concern American Motors Corp. (AMC) "American Motors" in the U.S. began to produce off-road vehicles, also called "jeeps". Their prototype was the army vehicles "Willis" and "Ford", produced during World War II by "Willis" and "Ford Motor" companies.

In 1970, the Kaiser Jeep company, which became the successor of Willis, became a part of the American Motors concern.

In 1983, American Motors created a completely new SUV, originally named Jeep Cherokee, and five-door jeeps of the new generation in the version of luxury sold under the name Wagoneer. They were distinguished by four small headlights built on top of each other.

In January 1986, the Wrangler, a direct descendant of the legendary Willys of World War 2, and successor to the CJ, made its debut in Geneva. New modification of Renegade - 1990.

In 1987, the American Motors company with its famous Jeep division joined the Chrysler concern.

In early 1992, a sensation happened in the States: the Chrysler concern finally put on public display a new generation of mid-size SUVs under the name Jeep Grand Cherokee, which replaced the "sacred cow" Grand Wagoneer, known since 1962 under the brand name Kaiser-Willis.

In 1997, the beginning of production of the modern (sixth) generation of the Wrangler model. In its latest modifications, the Wrangler became much more comfortable. The new Jeep got rid of all its springs and received instead a spring suspension Quadra-Coil. The appearance of the car became softer, and there is no noticeable excessive aggressiveness of the previous model. The new Wrangler is as waterproof as a good watch.

"Chrysler Jeep is a division of DaimlerChrysler Automobiles RUS, a subsidiary of DaimlerChrysler AG in Russia. In 1998, Daimler-Benz AG and Chrysler Corporation merged into one company, DaimlerChrysler AG. The strengths of the combined concern are the ability to cover all segments of the automotive market worldwide. The merger of Daimler-Benz AG with Chrysler Corporation also brought about changes in Russia. On July 1, 1999, the Chrysler Jeep division was established in the structure of Mercedes-Benz Automobiles CJSC.

1998 - presentation of the new generation of the Grand Cherokee model. But only a connoisseur's eye will distinguish it from its predecessor.

1999 - the beginning of production of the modern generation of Cherokee with a V-shaped 6 and 8-cylinder engine with a working volume of 5.2 liters.

In 2000, the new Jeep Commander 2. It combines batteries and gas equipment, which makes the system efficient and environmentally friendly. The Commander 2 is powered by electricity generated by fuel cells. To compensate for the excess weight created by the fuel cells, Jeep designers created the vehicle body from high-strength plastic using a unique technology. Thanks to this, the car weighs 2300 kg - almost 1000 of them give fuel cells. Another unique development is built into the dashboard - a small camera that shows the driver. If stolen, the face of the perpetrator will be automatically sent to law enforcement.

New Grand Cherokee 2001 - currently the most popular SUV in America and in most European countries is offered with a brand new V8 engine. volume 4.7 liters, 235 hp. This engine comes with a 5-speed automatic transmission. It is a very comfortable and even luxurious 5-door, 5-seat all-wheel drive vehicle. The new Grand Cherokee is equipped with an interesting Quadra-Drive system: if one of the wheels gets stuck, it is suspended, and the traction is transferred to the other wheels, which have not lost their grip on the ground. Fully updated car is one of the best all-wheel drive cars, besides, it has remarkable dynamics.