Aston Martin is a legendary British company specializing in the production of ultra-expensive sports supercars. It is a division of Ford Motor Company. The headquarters is located in Newport-Panell.
The founders of the Aston Martin brand are called Lionel Martin and Robert Bamford, who in 1914 in the London district of Kensington built a light sports car with a 1.4-liter engine Coventry-Simples on the chassis of the Italian passenger car Isotta Fraschini. The year before, Martin had driven a Singer-10 (Singer) to victory in the local Aston Clinton hillclimb race, and to commemorate the event the new car was named "Aston Martin".

At the end of 1919 the second Aston Martin model appeared, and its production began only in January 1920 in a new workshop on London's Abington Road.

Aston Martin cars constantly participated in races, thanks to which the company gained sporting and technical experience. In 1924 in the race at Monza crashed Count Louis Zborowski, who provided the company with huge financial assistance and the company, standing on the verge of bankruptcy bought for 6 thousand pounds sterling engineer Renwick (W.S. Renwick). The basis for all subsequent cars "Aston Martin" until 1936 was a new 1.5-liter engine with an overhead camshaft, which was developed by Renwick and his companion Italian August Cesare Bertelli (Bertelli).

The beginning of production of Aston Martin 11.9 HP model occurs in 1926.

In the races "24 Hours of Le Mans" in 1934-1936 the success is accompanied by the Aston-Martin Ulster model.

In 1936, the Speed model appears.

In 1939, the chief engineer of the company Claude Hill created a car Atom, which began the history of cars series "DB" (the abbreviation consisted of the initials of David Brown). In 1940 at the motor show in London "Atom" made a real sensation. But the war made its corrections.

In 1947 the company "Aston Martin" is bought by David Brown (David Brown) owner of a large industrial company for the manufacture of tractors and agricultural machinery, and in 1948 on the basis of the "Atom" produced the first DB. In the ownership of David Brown also got Lagonda, so their motor got "Aston Martin". A total of 15 Aston Martin-Lagonda DB1s were produced.

In 1950, the DB-2 with a 2.6 liter engine with an output of 105 hp made its debut, and successfully participated in many competitions for cars of 3-liter class.

Particularly notable was the racing modification "DB-3S" with an engine of over 200 hp, produced from 1953 to 1956. It was one of the most (if not the most) successful racers "Aston" . The main sporting successes fell to the share of special sports-racing series "DBR". One of DBR-3 in 1959 won in Le Mans and won the Constructors' Cup. In the same years, several formula 1 race cars were built, but they were not as successful as the sports cars.

In 1959, Aston Martin introduced the DB4 with a 3.7L aluminum 6-cylinder engine with twin overhead camshafts producing 240 hp, developed by designer Tadek Marek. The updated lightweight coupe body had a more elegant and attractive shape. It was the most successful grand-tourismo car among British cars. The impressive four-seat DBS model could reach a speed of 257 km/h, which put the car in a row with supercars.

In 1959, the DBR3 won the 24-hour race at Le Mans.

One of the variants of the DB4 was a sports-racing Aston Martin DB-4GT with a streamlined Zagato body, which was released in 1960. Only 19 cars of this version were produced; all of them have survived to this day.

In 1963, it was announced the release of a new DB5, which differed from its predecessor only increased to 4 liters of working volume of the engine with an output of 282 hp. By the way, the most famous of all Bond cars - Aston Martin DB5 can be seen in the movies 'Goldfinger' and 'Ball Lightning'.

The 325 horsepower DB6 that followed the Aston Martin DB5 in 1965 was similar in appearance to all its two-seater predecessors, but seated 4 people. It belonged to the top class and was able to compete with other prestigious models. In the late '60s, it became the basis for the more powerful DBS and DBS Vantage models with a 6-cylinder engine, which were later joined by cars with an aluminum V-8 engine in 5340 cubic centimeters, developing 340 to 450 hp.

In 1972 there was a new turn in the history of Aston Martin: David Brown sold it to Company Development Ltd., which put an end to the usual designation of models "DB". During this period, the company struggled to assemble small series of sports cars, designated Vantage for coupes and Volante for convertibles. All of them were offered in the most expensive versions with the former 5.3-liter V8 engine with 340 and 390 hp. The first direct injection systems and American automatic transmissions appeared on them.
Since 1976, small series were produced one of the world's most extravagant cars Aston Martin Lagonda of the highest class with an elongated wedge-shaped hood, which hid the already known "eight" in 390 hp together with an automatic transmission Chrysler. This car was not affordable to the common man, but in the Middle East Lagonda was very popular. For example, one of its owners were the Prince and Princess of Saudi Arabia.

With the advent of the 80s, the financial situation of Aston Martin deteriorated even more. During 7 years it was several times bought by British and American industrial and financial groups, but even this did not lead to significant changes in the affairs of the firm. Relative stabilization came only in 1987, when the next owner of Aston Martin became the American concern Ford Motor Company, which bought 75% of the company's shares.

In 1988 to the main range of models Vantage and Volante added a new coupe Virage, combining the spirit of models of the past years, such as the DB4, coupled with ultra-modern design and a great new chassis. The Virage offered motorists higher dynamic performance.

In the 90s, under the tutelage of Ford, Aston Martin's economic situation improved. In 1993, a new sporty DB7 was presented to the public. This model is one of the best cars of the company. In the 90s, the Virage, Volante and Vantage models are still relevant with a significantly redesigned V8 engine with 4 valves per cylinder and volumetric superchargers, which allowed to raise its power to 557 hp.

Aston Martin's successful project at the 1998 Detroit Auto Show was the new DB7 model. Designer Ian Callum contributed to the creation of the car of the next millennium, which was called "Dream Choice". DB7 is available in two variants, which have become standard for Aston - Coupe and Volante.

In 1999 at the Geneva Motor Show, a new brainchild of British designers - Vantage Aston Martin DB7 - was shown for the first time. This is another dream-car from the DB7 model series. The design of the new DB7 Vantage was also made by Ian Callum.

In 2000, the owner of Aston Martin - American auto giant Ford officially introduced the Aston Martin V12 Vanquish, which thanks to a new, more powerful engine and the use of lightweight materials, the car has amazing driving characteristics. Vanquish is like not a car at all, but some boutique on the Champs Elysees. It is not necessary to tell that the car is literally stuffed with all possible electronics. All information is processed by the on-board computer (which, according to engineers, can execute up to 2 million commands per second), displayed on the screen, and the most important information is duplicated by voice. English workers are expected to assemble about 300 cars each year, each one handmade and customized, so there will be no identical ones.

In 2001, the company announced the release of the four-thousandth car of the Aston Martin DB7 model. It became the Vanage coupe, painted in gray-green color Galloway Green. Sales volumes of DB7 model became a new record of the company and exceed the total sales volumes of the previous generations of this model - DB4, DB5 and DB6. It should be noted that elite "Aston Martins" are still assembled in four small sheds near the town of Newport Pagnell in central England. This factory never learned what an assembly line or Ford's division of labor was. At another factory, where Aston Martin BDs are made, each car has a special branding under the hood: the name of the assembler, or, better to say, the author.